--- Page 1 ---


--- Page 2 ---
THE CHAIRMAN’S LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS
Dear Shareholders,
India in the Global Economy: 
The global economy has been marked with volatility in 2025 due 
to trade tensions, geo-politics and the drums of war. Despite 
challenging global conditions, India remains a bright spot - one of 
the fastest growing major economies in the world, projected to grow 
at a rapid clip of 6.2 percent this year. Digital infrastructure and 
connectivity have emerged as significant driver of economic growth 
in India. The advent of mobile technology and the internet has 
bridged the digital divide, bringing connectivity to rural and urban 
areas alike. The proliferation of affordable smartphones and data 
plans has revolutionized how Indians access information, conduct 
business, and communicate. This connectivity has integrated 
technology into the fabric of daily life and commerce. The digital 
divide, though narrowed, still exists, particularly in rural areas and 
is a growth opportunity.
Your Company’s performance:
Your Company, underpinned by the support of its strong promoters 
– the Aditya Birla Group and Vodafone Group - is a major 
telecommunication operator in India, offering Voice, Data, and 
other Value Added Services (“VAS”), business connectivity services 
including IoT, Cloud, Managed Services etc. to millions of users. As 
of March 31, 2025, the subscriber market share of your Company 
stands at 17.7% as per TRAI’s Subscription Report.
Funding and Investment Cycle
Even amid a challenging environment, your Company has 
demonstrated confidence in its future by successfully completing 


--- Page 3 ---
substantial equity raise of ~` 245 billion, including FPO of 
` 180 billion, preferential issue of ~` 40 billion to promoters and 
~` 25 billion to vendors. In addition to the above spectrum dues 
of ~` 369 billion to the Government of India converted into equity, 
resulting in a government equity ownership of 49% in your Company.
Following the fund raise, your Company entered into major network 
agreements worth approximately ` 300 billion with three global 
technology partners-Nokia, Ericsson and Samsung-to initiate 
full-scale network deployment in October 2024. This marked the 
beginning of our transformative three-year capex cycle, estimated 
at ` 500–550 billion, out of which ` 74.4 billion have already been 
invested in this year. During the year, we have made significant 
progress in expanding our network footprint, we added a net 
~14,100 broadband towers, almost equivalent to the net cumulative 
addition of ~14,900 towers in the last four years. These early 
investments have significantly enhanced network coverage and 
capacity, resulting in a better customer experience. 4G population 
coverage expanded by 73 million, reaching approximately 83% in 
March 2025 up from 77% from an year ago. Simultaneously, 4G 
data capacity increased by about 31%, contributing to a nearly 28% 
improvement in 4G speeds. Your Company has launched 5G across 
multiple cities and it is progressing steadily in a phased manner. 
This marks just the beginning of a broader investment cycle.
Consequently, we are observing an improvement in operational 
and financial performance during FY25. Your Company delivered a 
third consecutive year of annual growth in both revenue and Cash 
EBITDA. Revenue stood at ` 435.7 billion, reflecting a 2.2% year-
on-year increase while cash EBITDA rose to ` 92 billion registering a 
year-on-year growth of 9.5%. The Applicable Gross Revenue (ApGR) 
market share was 16.2% of the Indian mobile telecommunications 


--- Page 4 ---
services industry for the year ended March 31, 2025 as per TRAI 
Data. During the year ended March 31, 2025, your Company had a 
leading ApGR market share in the Mumbai and Kerala service areas, 
and the second largest ApGR market share in Gujarat. For the same 
period, ApGR market share was over 20% in Haryana, Kolkata, Uttar 
Pradesh (West), Maharashtra and Delhi service areas.
Our ARPU has risen for 15 consecutive quarters, supported by 
strategic tariff increases and consistent customer upgrades. Our gross 
subscriber acquisition share has outperformed our subscriber market 
share for past several quarters, underscoring our competitive edge to 
attract new users. We have also seen lower decline in the subscriber 
base in Q4FY25, post the revival of investments from Q3FY25 and 
we expect such trend to continue as we expand our 4G coverage and 
launch our 5G services. Our 4G subscriber base has grown in 14 out 
of the last 15 quarters, with the only decline observed in Q2FY25, 
where loss of subscribers happened post a tariff hike.
Your Company is confident that this positive trend will continue 
as we sustain the current pace of capex deployment and build a 
resilient business.
Focus on Long-term Growth:
Your Company believes that it is well positioned to exploit 
the growth opportunities in India’s rapidly expanding mobile 
telecommunications industry. Your Company’s primary focus 
has been on network investments to ensure superior customer 
experience. Your Company’s 4G population coverage is over 1.1 
billion and it has significantly improved its capacity. Your Company 
relentlessly pursuits to have the best 4G network through integration 
and incremental network investments on both data and voice. 
In parallel, we have prioritized cost optimization, as reflected in 
declining network costs despite network expansion efforts.


--- Page 5 ---
Your Company continues to focus on driving 4G penetration to 
increase ARPU with attractive offers such as ‘SuperHero’ providing 
Unlimited Data from 12 midnight to 12 noon and ‘Non-Stop Hero’ 
delivering 24x7 Unlimited Data access to cater to the rising data 
needs of users. Your Company had taken tariff interventions during 
the year across unlimited bundled plans as well as postpaid plans. 
Your Company has also been focusing on digital-first approach 
digitizing all customer touchpoints as well as distribution channel. 
Further, your Company remains focused on strengthening its 
position on business services, especially the new and fast-growing 
segment of IoT and cloud services. Your Company has launched 
several digital initiatives to address the changing requirements of 
today’s digital society enabling individuals and enterprises to get a 
range of benefits and value-adds. During the year, your Company 
continued to steadily building a long-term competitive edge by 
deepening customer engagement and enabling a rich digital 
ecosystem that includes Vi Movies & TV, Vi Games, eSports, 
CloudPlay, and a growing digital marketplace. These offerings not 
only cater to the evolving digital consumption patterns but also 
strengthen brand stickiness and loyalty. All these initiatives will 
improve revenue and profitability and subsequently strengthen your 
Company’s overall competitive position in the market.
Outlook
Looking ahead, we are confident that this positive trajectory will 
continue as we sustain the current pace of network investments, 
digital expansion, and operational excellence. The Government, 
now the largest public shareholder with a 49 percent equity stake, 
has been a key pillar in our transformation journey. Despite this 
ownership, promoters continue to retain operational control and 
remain committed to delivering long-term shareholder value. 


--- Page 6 ---
I extend my heartfelt appreciation to every employee of Vodafone 
Idea for their dedication and to all stakeholders for their continued 
trust and support throughout this journey.
It gives me great pleasure to present the Annual Report for the 
fiscal year 2024-25, and I eagerly anticipate your continued trust 
and confidence in our future endeavors.
Yours Sincerely,
Ravinder Takkar


--- Page 7 ---


--- Page 8 ---
CONTENTS
	
2	
Board of Directors
	
3	
Corporate Information
	
7	
Directors’ Report & Management Discussion and Analysis
	 68	
Corporate Governance Report
	 97	
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
	
	
Standalone Financial Statements
	
146	 Independent Auditor’s Report
162	 Balance Sheet
	
164	 Statement of Profit and Loss
	
166	 Statement of Changes in Equity
168	 Statement of Cash Flows
	
171	 Notes forming part of the Financial Statements
	
	
Consolidated Financial Statements
	
243	 Independent Auditor’s Report on Consolidated Financial Statements
	
252	 Consolidated Balance Sheet
	
254	 Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss
	
256	 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
	
258	 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
	
261	 Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
1
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 9 ---
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Mr. Anjani Agrawal
Mr. Ashwani Windlass
Mr. Himanshu Kapania
Independent Director
Independent Director
Non-Executive Director
Ms. Neena Gupta
Mr. Rajat Jain
Mr. Kumar Mangalam Birla
Independent Director
Independent Director
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Ravinder Takkar
Mr. Selcuk Karacay
Mr. Sunil Sood
Non-Executive Chairman
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Sunirmal Talukdar
Mr. Suresh Vaswani
Mr. Sushil Agarwal
Independent Director
Non-Executive Director
Independent Director
2


--- Page 10 ---
CORPORATE INFORMATION
Mr. Akshaya Moondra
Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Murthy GVAS
Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Pankaj Kapdeo
Company Secretary
Statutory Auditors
Cost Auditors
Sanjay Gupta & Associates
Cost Accountants
C-4E/135, Janakpuri
New Delhi - 110 058
S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
12th Floor, The Ruby,
29, Senapati Bapat Marg,
Dadar (West),
Mumbai - 400 028
Secretarial Auditors
Umesh Ved & Associates
Company Secretaries
304, Shoppers Plaza V,
Opp. Municipal Market,
C.G. Road, Navrangpura,
Ahmedabad - 380 009
Registrar and Share Transfer Agents
Bigshare Services Pvt. Ltd.
Office No. S6-2, 6th Floor,
Pinnacle Business Park,
Next to Ahura Centre,
Mahakali Caves Road, Andheri (East),
Mumbai – 400 093
Registered Office
Suman Tower,
Plot No. 18, Sector - 11,
Gandhinagar - 382 011
Gujarat
Corporate Office
Birla Centurion, 10th Floor,
Century Mills Compound,
Pandurang Budhkar Marg,
Worli, Mumbai - 400 030
Corporate Identity Number (CIN)
L32100GJ1996PLC030976
Website
www.myvi.in
3
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 11 ---
4


--- Page 12 ---
5
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 13 ---
6


--- Page 14 ---
Corporate
Governance Report
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
Financial
Statements
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
DIRECTORS’ REPORT & MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
Dear Shareholders,
• 
Overall tele-density rose from 77.3% in March 2015 
to 82.4% in March 2025.
We have pleasure in presenting the Thirtieth Annual Report, 
together with the audited financial statements of the 
Company for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025.
• 
Rural telephone connections grew by 26.9%, more than 
double the urban increase, from 414.2 Mn in March 
2015 to 525.6 Mn in March 2025.
INDIAN WIRELESS SECTOR
• 
Broadband connections jumped from 83.68 Mn in 
March 2015 to 902.7 Mn in March 2025, a growth of 
978.8%.
• 
Average monthly data consumption per wireless data 
subscriber (GSM) increased from 89 MB in March 2015 
to 22 GB in March 2025.
• 
Average minutes of usage per subscriber (GSM) 
increased 2.7 times from 383 minutes in March 2015 
to 1,026 minutes in March 2025.
In the early 2000s, wireless connectivity was a privilege 
available to only a few. In 2001, India’s tele-density i.e the 
number of telephone connections per 100 people — stood 
at a mere 3.5, making even a basic phone call inaccessible 
for many. Fast forward to 2025, and what was once 
considered a luxury has become a fundamental part of daily 
life. With tele-density surging to 82.4% and the cost of 
voice calls plummeting, connectivity is not only affordable 
but ubiquitous. This remarkable transformation has not only 
redefined communication but has also turned once-distant 
aspirations into everyday experiences. Today, India boasts the 
world’s second-largest telecommunications sector, serving 
over a billion people. The sector is contributing approximately 
6% to the national GDP (including Infrastructure, Equipment, 
Mobile Virtual Network Operators, White Space Spectrum, 
5G, Telephone service providers and Broadband).
Wireless connectivity has become the backbone of India’s 
digital ecosystem, connecting over a billion people across 
diverse geographies. Telecom companies have made 
substantial investments in wireless infrastructure - providing 
extensive 4G coverage covering and, rolling out 5G networks 
across India. The criticality of having a robust wireless sector 
has been authenticated multiple times, including during 
the COVID 19 pandemic, where it enabled remote working, 
digital education, telemedicine and e-commerce, keeping 
the economy and essential services functioning and in times 
of geopolitical tension or natural disasters, when the wireless 
network ensures real time communication, coordination and 
crisis response.
The widespread availability of affordable mobile devices and 
internet services has accelerated digital adoption, bridging 
gaps and connecting communities across the country. The 
sector marked significant progress in connectivity, digital 
inclusion, technological advancement, and regulatory 
reforms i.e all aligned with the government’s Digital India 
vision. From the rapid rollout of newer technologies to 
the policies aimed at enhancing infrastructure and user 
experience, these initiatives have played a vital role in 
fostering inclusive growth and seamless communication.
Over the last decade, the wireless operators have made very 
large investments in acquiring spectrum and expansion of 
network infrastructure - be it 4G to address the growing 
customer demand or rolling out an advanced technology 
like 5G where the customer demand is still evolving to 
support the Digital India Vision of our Hon’ble Prime Minister. 
However, the sector faces significant challenges.
India’s telecom journey has become a case study in global 
transformation. Unlike many other nations that viewed 
telecom as a commercial service, India recognized it as 
a powerful tool for equity and empowerment, a force 
that continues to narrow the divide between urban and 
 
rural populations, and between the privileged and the 
underserved.
Let’s take a look at the Indian telecom scenario in last 
decade:
• 
Wireless connections grew from 969.9 Mn in March 
2015 to 1,157 Mn in March 2025.
On the back of these investments, India has improved its 
global ranking in mobile broadband speed from 118th to 
15th in a report published by the Portulans Institute, an 
independent non-profit research and educational institute 
based in Washington DC. The surge in connectivity demand 
across all demographics, driven by diverse income groups, 
age segments, and evolving customer behavior, has also 
boosted India’s ranking in the Network Readiness Index 
7
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 15 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
(NRI) 2024 to 49th position, up from 60th in the same 
report.
Services etc. Your Company is continuously engaged in 
introducing newer and smarter technologies for its retail 
and enterprise customers. Your Company offers technologies 
with innovative offerings that can be accessed conveniently 
through an ecosystem of digital channels as well as extensive 
presence on the ground.
However, despite this impressive growth, overall broadband 
penetration still remains below 65% representing a 
significant opportunity for further growth with higher 
adoption of broadband services.
1.	
Voice Services
It may be noted that India has one of the lowest ARPUs in the 
world making it challenging for telcos to sustain investment 
and innovation. The private mobile operators hiked tariff
 
	
Your Company offers Voice services in all 22 service 
areas. Your Company now covers more than 1.2 Bn 
Indians in over 487,000 census towns and villages 
with its Voice services. Your Company also provides 4G 
VoLTE across all 22 circles to provide enhanced voice 
experience to its 4G subscribers. Your Company has 
now expanded Voice over WiFi (VoWiFi) calling feature 
for its subscribers.
2.	
Broadband Services
in July 2024 after more than two years since the previous 
price increase in November 2021, leading to improvements 
in ARPU and revenue. However, despite the price increase, 
the ARPU in India remains as one of the lowest globally 
and the industry’s ROCE continues to remain below cost 
of capital. Further, the telecom sector requires significant 
investments to support emerging technologies, and meet 
the rapid increase in data consumption, further accelerated 
by rapid AI advancements. 
Therefore, to ensure a fair return on significant investments 
and support future capital expenditure in the telecom 
industry, further tariff increases are essential. Additionally, 
the industry needs to return to a pricing model where heavy 
data users contribute more proportionally to their higher 
usage, than the current pricing structure where incremental 
data usage comes at an extremely low and unsustainable 
marginal price.
	
The broadband services of Vodafone Idea on 4G is 
available in all 22 service areas of India. The Company’s 
broadband coverage is available in over 389,600 
Census towns and villages. The population coverage 
on 4G is more than 1.1 Bn covering close to 83% of 
population#. Your Company has thus seen a steady 
rise in 4G subscriber penetration (as a percentage of 
reported subscribers) increasing from 59.4% as of 
March 31,2024 to 63.8% as of March 31, 2025. As your 
Company continues to focus on 4G network expansion, 
4G subscriber penetration should further improve in the 
coming years. Your Company has recently launched 5G 
services and expansion efforts are underway to offer 5G 
services in the key geographies of other circles where 
Company holds 5G spectrum by August 2025.
3.	
Content and Digital Offerings
With low penetration and potential ARPU growth, India 
continues to remain an attractive market for telecom 
industry despite the past challenges of hyper-competition 
and subsequent financial stress in the sector. The 
consolidation of the industry to three private operators and 
one government operator positions the industry well to 
benefit from the growth opportunities on the back of India’s 
digitalization trend and Government’s vision of Digital India.
COMPANY OVERVIEW
Mobile Business Overview
Your Company offers not just enriched connectivity 
but also an array of digital products and services to 
complement the core business. Digital and Content has 
been at the core of Your Company’s strategy wherein 
over the past few years Your Company has launched 
several digital initiatives to address the changing 
requirements of today’s consumers and enabling them 
to get a range of benefits and value-adds.
Your Company, an Aditya Birla Group and Vodafone Group 
partnership, is a major telecommunication operator in India, 
offering Voice, Data, and other Value Added Services (“VAS”, 
business connectivity services including IoT, Cloud, Managed 
#Basis the Census 2011 data adjusted for 2020 by using Aadhaar Card data and proportionately extrapolating for all census data points, 
reported by an independent third-party consultant.
8


--- Page 16 ---
Corporate
Governance Report
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
Financial
Statements
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
To enable access to the best in class content to its 
customers, the Company relaunched Vi Movies & TV as 
a paid subscription service offering multiple OTTs under 
one plan, specifically targeting Smart TV consumers, 
who can get all their favourite OTTs through one plan. 
The Company has brought 17 OTT partners onboard 
for this offering including the likes of Disney+ Hotstar, 
SonyLiv, Zee5, SunNxt and a host of regional OTTs like 
Chaupal, Klikk, Nammaflix and more.
casual games like Solitaire, Carrom, Wordle, Ludo, 
Sudoku, Cricket, Soccer, Rummy, etc which one 
can play with friends or online players or even 
participate in ongoing daily tournaments. The 
App also has an eSports platform in partnership 
with GamerJi, enabling the gaming enthusiasts 
to participate in eSports tournaments on popular 
titles like Free Fire Max, Call of Duty, Clash Royale, 
Asphalt 9, World Cricket Championship 3 & more.
	
• 
Vi Shop: Leveraging telco data and access 
capabilities to create a digital marketplace, we 
have launched a ‘shop’ section on Vi App in 
partnership with leading players across categories 
like entertainment, food, shopping and travel.
	
The most recent addition to this lineup is Lionsgate. 
Additionally, the subscription also allows access to 
350+ TV channels. In order to offer a superlative 
viewing experience with a convenience of discovering 
all the content from the partner apps, consumers can 
watch these OTTs on any screen, mobile, laptop, tablets 
or SmartTVs.
	
• 
Utility Bill Pay: With a view to establish Vi App 
as a preferred destination, we have also integrated 
‘Utility Bill Payment’ functionality on Vi App 
enabling the users to pay their electricity bills, 
water bills, LPG bills, insurance premium, loan 
EMIs, recharge FASTAG or their DTH or broadband 
subscriptions.
	
Your Company also continues to scale its bundling play 
on OTTs by continually expanding the portfolio with 
existing partners as well as bringing new partners on 
board. Your Company has most attractive prepaid and 
postpaid plans bundled with Netflix, Amazon Prime, 
Prime Lite and Zee.
4.	
Other Value Added Services (VAS) Offerings
	
Your Company offers a variety of other Value Added 
Services (VAS) offerings, including
	
In an endeavor to increase engagement and service 
the varied digital needs of the customers over the past 
two years, your Company has launched multiple other 
digital initiatives like Vi Ads, Vi Games, Vi Shop, Utility 
Bill Pay that we continue to evolve and scale:
	
-	
Voice and SMS based services such as caller 
tunes, voice & SMS chat; and
	
-	
Utility services such as missed call alerts
Long Distance Services and ISP
Your Company has active licenses for National Long Distance 
(“NLD”), International Long Distance (“ILD”) and Internet 
Service Provider (“ISP”), and registration for Infrastructure 
Provider (“IP-1”) services. These licenses are used to carry
 
 
 
• 
Vi Ads : Vi has its own Ad-tech platform called 
‘Vi Ads’ providing Digital Advertising services for 
Media Agencies & Brands for running targeted 
Marketing campaigns through its AI/ML enabled 
Ad-tech platform, which empowers marketers to 
engage with Vi users, as per their own targeting 
requirements, on both, Vi media assets as well as 
external media channels and publisher partners of 
Vi Ads. Vi Ads is now empanelled with almost all 
the top media agencies and is part of the media 
plan for some of the big brands in the country.
 
• 
Vi Games : The Company offers gaming service - 
Vi Games on Vi App. Vi Games offers a wide variety 
of individual hyper casual games in partnership 
with OnMobile. The Company also has multiplayer 
or social games under Vi Games. This includes 
inter-circle voice traffic of your Company and also bring 
incoming voice traffic from top international carriers across 
the globe into India. Your Company also sends all of the 
outgoing International Voice traffic on its own network and 
the interconnections with these licenses enable it. These 
licenses also help your Company to offer various Enterprise 
Fixed Voice and Data Services to Enterprise, Government and 
Wholesale customers. Vodafone Idea ISP currently handles 
all captive subscriber traffic requirements.
9
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 17 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
Business Services
and utilise data and analytics to enable personalization 
at a large scale. This also enables the upgrade of 
voice only customers to become users of a large 
array of data services and digital offerings, and helps 
maintain competitive position in the market. Your 
Company also utilizes artificial intelligence and data 
analytics to improve some of its services, including 
customer segmentation, targeted marketing, offering 
personalized recommendations, and location based 
services, among others.
2.	
Competitive Spectrum Profile
Vi Business is committed to being the most trusted 
and valued partner helping businesses in their digital 
transformation journey. Leveraging its global expertise and 
understanding of local markets, it offers comprehensive 
communication solutions to empower global and Indian 
corporations, public sector and government entities, as well 
as small and medium enterprises and start-ups. With leading-
edge enterprise mobility, robust fixed-line connectivity, world 
class IoT solutions, and insightful business analytics and 
digital services, Your Company delivers the smartest and 
newest cutting edge technologies to support businesses 
in the digital age.
Competitive Strengths
	
Your Company has a total of 8,030.4 MHz of spectrum 
across different frequency bands out of which 8,012.8 
MHz spectrum is liberalised and can be used towards 
deployment of any technology.
	
This includes the sub GHz spectrum (900 MHz 
band) in 7 circles acquired in June 2024 auction i.e 
 
Your Company believes that it is well positioned to exploit 
the growth opportunities in India’s rapidly expanding mobile 
telecommunications industry. The key competitive strengths 
are set out below:
1.	
Large Subscriber Base
Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Punjab, 
Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh (East) and Kolkata, enabling 
your Company to dedicate adequate 900 MHz band 
spectrum for 4G thereby enhancing the experience of 
4G customers in these large markets, particularly the 
indoor experience. In addition to 900 MHz spectrum, 
the Company has also acquired 1800 MHz spectrum in 
Madhya Pradesh and 2500 MHz spectrum in Bihar, which 
will help in increasing the network capacity quickly. Your 
Company has mid band 5G spectrum (3300 MHz band) 
in 17 priority service areas and mm Wave 5G spectrum 
 
(26 GHz band) in 16 service areas.
	
Your Company is the sixth largest telecommunications 
service provider in the world based on subscriber 
base (Source: GSMA Intelligence Dashboard). As per 
TRAI Subscription Report, your Company had over 
205.4 Mn subscribers and the subscriber market share 
was 17.7% as of March 31, 2025. The Applicable Gross 
Revenue (ApGR) market share was 16.2% of the Indian 
mobile telecommunications services industry for the 
year ended March 31, 2025 as per TRAI Data. During 
the year ended March 31, 2025, your Company had a 
leading ApGR market share in the Mumbai and Kerala 
service areas, and the second largest ApGR market 
share in Gujarat. For the same period, ApGR market 
share was over 20% in Haryana, Kolkata, Uttar Pradesh 
(West), Maharashtra, and Delhi service areas.
	
Your Company, thus, has a solid portfolio of spectrum 
across all bands in all the priority circles. This large 
spectrum portfolio enables offering a superior experience 
to the customers as your Company has the highest 4G 
spectrum available per million subscribers and sufficient 
capability to support migration of entire 4G subscriber 
base to 5G. With the emergence of 5G technology, 
 
	
On a reported basis, your Company has 198.2 Mn 
subscribers as of March 31, 2025, of which 126.4 Mn 
it further enables strengthening the enterprise 
 
offerings and provides new opportunities for business 
growth.
are 4G subscribers. As it continues to expand 
broadband coverage and capacity, the large subscriber 
base provides a platform to communicate effectively 
10


--- Page 18 ---
Corporate
Governance Report
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
Financial
Statements
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Below table provides the spectrum held by your Company across all service areas:
Spectrum Frequencies (MHz)
Total FDD 
 
Circle
x2 + TDD
FDD
TDD
900
1800
2100
2300
2500
3300
26000
Andhra Pradesh
7.4
10.0
5.0
-
20.0
50
200
314.8
Bihar
-
13.4
5.0
-
20.0
50
-
106.8
Delhi
10.0
10.6
5.0
-
20.0
50
200
321.2
Gujarat
11.0
20.8
10.0
-
30.0
50
450
613.6
Haryana
12.2
15.8
15.0
-
20.0
50
400
556.0
Karnataka
7.2
15.0
10.0
-
-
50
200
314.4
Kerala
12.4
20.0
10.0
10.0
20.0
50
800
964.8
Kolkata
7.2
15.0
10.0
-
20.0
50
200
334.4
Madhya Pradesh
7.4
19.8
5.0
10.0
20.0
50
400
544.4
Maharashtra
14.0
12.4
15.0
10.0
30.0
50
400
572.8
Mumbai
11.0
10.2
10.0
-
20.0
50
200
332.4
Punjab
6.8
15.0
10.0
-
20.0
50
300
433.6
Rajasthan
6.8
10.0
15.0
-
20.0
50
300
433.6
Tamil Nadu
7.4
11.4
15.0
-
-
50
300
417.6
Uttar Pradesh (East)
6.8
10.0
20.0
-
20.0
50
250
393.6
Uttar Pradesh (West)
10.0
15.0
10.0
-
20.0
50
350
490.0
West Bengal
6.8
21.6
5.0
-
20.0
50
400
536.8
Priority Circles
144.4
246.0
175.0
30.0
320.0
850.0 5,350.0
7,680.8
Assam
-
25.0
5.0
-
20.0
-
-
80.0
Himachal Pradesh
-
11.2
5.0
-
10.0
-
-
42.4
Jammu & Kashmir
-
17.0
5.0
-
10.0
-
-
54.0
North East
-
25.8
5.0
-
20.0
-
-
81.6
Odisha
5.0
17.0
5.0
-
20.0
-
-
74.0
Other Circles
5.0
96.0
25.0
-
80.0
-
-
332.0
Total Liberalised Spectrum
149.4
342.0
200.0
30.0
400.0
850.0 5,350.0
8,012.8
Non-Liberalised Spectrum
8.8
17.6
Grand Total
149.4
350.8
200.0
30.0
400.0
850.0 5,350.0
8,030.4
3.	
Extensive Network Infrastructure and Coverage
	
Your Company has a strong network footprint across 
the country which enables it to offer comprehensive 
consumer offerings as well as, has a substantial capacity 
spectrum to address the growing data demand. Your 
Company has a large network infrastructure of 2G, 3G, 
4G and 5G equipment, along with a nationwide fibre 
optic cable (OFC) network. As of March 31, 2025, your 
Company operates approximately 195,300 unique 
tower locations across more than 487,000 towns 
and villages in India, and offers broadband services 
(3G, 4G and 5G) at more than 494,500 broadband 
(3G,4G and 5G) units, covering over a billion people. 
Your Company has witnessed an increase in 4G 
population coverage following the Merger from 530 Mn 
for Vodafone and 655 Mn for Idea prior to the Merger, 
to over 1.1 Bn Indians i.e. ~83% of population, as of 
March 31, 2025.
11
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 19 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
enhanced through Snapchat with the introduction of 
‘Be Someone’s We’ lens.
	
Your Company has OFC spanning over 317,500 
kilometers, combining both its own infrastructure and 
IRUs taken (excluding overlaps). We provide VoLTE 
services and voice over WiFi (“VoWiFi”) services 
throughout India.
	
Your Company continues to focus on enhancing its 
4G infrastructure. During the year, your Company is 
aggressively working towards building 5G infrastructure. 
Your Company has been deploying LTE on TDD band 
of 2300 MHz and 2500 MHz spectrum band to 
expand the capacity and on 900 MHz band on select 
sites to improve customer experience in dense areas. 
Your Company also deploys Dynamic Spectrum 
Re-farming, High Power Small Cell, Massive MIMO and 
Small Cells to maximize spectrum efficiency.
4.	
Power Brand
	
To further drive engagement, Vi introduced the 
high-energy Run Mahotsav during the IPL season-an 
interactive campaign on the Vi App that encouraged 
daily participation through gamified experiences, 
quizzes, and transaction-based rewards. This initiative 
saw enthusiastic response from users, significantly 
boosting app engagement and brand interaction. In 
addition, Vi partnered with leading youth platforms 
like Spotify, Yuvaa, and Snapchat to co-create content 
and experiences tailored to younger audiences. 
These platform-specific collaborations amplified the 
message of ‘Be Someone’s We’, blending influencer-led 
storytelling, purposeful digital content, and interactive 
formats to deepen relevance and emotional connect 
among Gen Z and millennial consumers.
	
Together, these initiatives reflect Vi’s strategic focus 
on customer-centricity, emotional resonance, and 
digital innovation, all of which are central to building 
a truly powerful and enduring brand in today’s hyper-
connected world.
	
Your Company continues to make great progress 
in creating a strong differentiation for the brand by 
building functional salience of its network, establishing 
a deep emotional connect with its customers and by 
offering innovative and industry-first propositions that 
gives them the maximum value and benefits that a 
telco plan can offer. 
	
With the kickstarting of the Capex cycle post FPO and 
significant expansion and improvement of the network, 
we launched hyperlocal campaigns at a massive scale 
across India which targeted customers with stories 
of ‘Our Best Ever Network’ at city, district and locality 
levels to reiterate the extent and impact of network 
expansion. This campaign was amplified through OOH, 
digital, retail, radio and other such local media.
	
In line with its purpose-led branding, Vi launched 
the emotionally resonant ‘Be Someone’s We (V!)’ 
campaign in September 2024, inspired by the belief 
that connections have the power to transform lives. 
The campaign reinforced Vi’s vision of being a trusted 
partner in its customers’ journey towards a better 
today and a brighter tomorrow. The second phase 
of this campaign, rolled out during the Cricket World 
Cup, highlighted stories of empty nesters navigating 
loneliness, showcasing Vi’s role in fostering real 
human connections and bridging emotional gaps. The 
campaign struck a deep emotional chord, appealing to 
the universal need for belonging and making the world 
a little less lonely through the power of connectivity. 
We engaged with younger audiences through a podcast 
in partnership with Yuvaa called - ‘Be A Parent, Yaar!’ 
where the central theme of ‘Be Someone’s We’ was 
woven into conversations between celebrities and 
their parents. The interaction with youth was further 
	
Vi also had a very successful run at the India Mobile 
Congress 2024 with over 40,000 attendees garnering 
among the highest footfalls, engagement and media 
share of voice during that period. Vi showcased 
innovative consumer use cases that showcased the 
‘Future is now’ such as Remote Healthcare, VR Dwarka 
Darshan, eSports and Remote Music Orchestration 
drew massive crowds, participation and interest from 
visitors, delegates and the media. On the enterprise 
side, use cases such as Industry 4.0, IoT and MSME 
solutions similarly garnered great interest. Your 
Company demonstrated Vi’s vision and thought 
12


--- Page 20 ---
Corporate
Governance Report
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
Financial
Statements
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
leadership on how the power of technology can 
help shape the future of healthcare, entertainment, 
business and more.
2500 MHz) in 11 circles at a total commitment of 
` 3,510 Crore. Your company holds the highest 4G 
spectrum per million subs amongst the 3 private 
operators and competitive 5G spectrum in 17 priority 
circles, which allows it to offer superior experience to 
customers as well as to effectively utilize the spectrum 
across existing and emerging technologies.
	
By Q3 FY 25, apart from adding new towers, your 
Company was also adding technology layers to the 
existing broadband towers, which we communicated 
through an extensive Television and ATL media 
campaign named ‘100 Towers every Hour’. Your 
Company’s network was also rated as the best 
4G network in the country in November 2024 by 
Opensignal. Your Company’s network was rated to be 
providing the best 4G Download and Upload Speeds, 
4G Live Video, 4G Gaming and 4G Video Experience 
and 4G Voice App experience in the country.
	
A major milestone was achieved in September 
2024 when your Company concluded contracts for 
approximately ₹300 Bn with three global technology 
partners-Nokia, Ericsson, and Samsung-for the 
supply of network equipment over a three-year period. 
This strategic step formed the foundation of the 
transformative three-year capex plan, which is targeted 
at overall spends of ₹500–550 Bn.
	
Your Company always prides itself in bringing in the 
best propositions and products for its customers in 
the marketplace that provide them the best value 
and benefits and act as a core differentiator. To this 
endeavor, Vi launched several new products such as the 
Vi Super Hero, Vi Non Stop Hero and the refreshed Vi 
RedX Postpaid that garnered popularity and continue 
to be widely subscribed.
	
Following the execution of these agreements, 
network deployment began in October 2024, formally 
kickstarting a full-scale capex cycle. During the 
year, the  Company made significant progress in 
expanding its network footprint. It added a total of 
~14,100 broadband towers-almost equivalent to the 
net cumulative addition of ~14,900 towers between 
FY20 and FY24. As previously outlined, your Company 
aims to increase its broadband tower count to around 
215,000–220,000-an addition of over 45,000-50,000 
towers compared to March 2024, which will take the 
4G population coverage to approximately 90%.
	
As the network continues to become stronger, Vi 
would continue to build along the pillars of functional 
salience, emotional connection, digital media, youth 
and product led innovations to create differentiation 
in the marketplace.
OVERVIEW OF KEY STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
1.	
Focus on Network Investments
	
Your Company continues to enhance sub-GHz 
900 MHz band across all 16 spectrum circles adding 
approximately 58,400 sites in FY25 to improve overall 
coverage and strengthen indoor connectivity. In 
addition, around 48,300 sites were added on the 1800 
MHz and 2100 MHz bands to boost network capacity 
and enable higher data speeds on Vi GIGAnet network.
	
Your Company’s investments had been constrained 
over the past few years due to liquidity challenges. 
Following the recent fundraise, capital expenditure 
(capex) gained significant momentum.
	
In H1FY25, your Company launched ‘quick win’ capex 
initiatives, which focused on capitalising on low-
hanging fruits, while working on finalizing long-term 
capex contracts.
	
During the July 2024 spectrum auction, your Company 
has acquired 50 MHz of spectrum across low band 
and mid band spectrum (900 MHz, 1800 MHz and 
	
As of March 31, 2025, total broadband site count 
reached approximately 494,500, up from ~430,700 
an year earlier. Your Company is also deploying 
High-Powered Small Cells-ultra-lean pole sites 
designed for minimal infrastructure and single-operator 
use-to address coverage and capacity challenges in 
densely populated areas, offering enhanced efficiency 
and lower operational costs.
13
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 21 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
	
To complement extensive network upgrades, your 
Company launched one of India’s most hyperlocal 
marketing campaigns aimed at increasing consumer 
awareness about the marked improvement in network 
performance. The campaign highlights real-world local 
success stories and showcases how the network has 
truly become “Our Best Ever Network” across cities, 
districts, and localities.
	
These early investments have significantly enhanced 
network coverage and capacity, resulting in an 
enhanced customer experience. 4G population 
coverage expanded by 73 Mn, reaching approximately 
83%, up from 77% in March 2024. Simultaneously, 4G 
data capacity increased by about 31%, contributing 
to a nearly 28% improvement in 4G speeds. This 
marks just the beginning of a multi-year investment 
cycle. Consequently, a notable slowdown in subscriber 
losses caused by lack of investment earlier is observed. 
Your Company is confident that this positive trend of 
reduced subscriber loss will continue as we sustain 
the current pace of capex deployment. Moreover, the 
phased launch of 5G services is expected to further 
strengthen subscriber acquisition and retention.
	
At the Maha Kumbh Mela 2025, Vi strengthened 
its network capacity in the region to handle the 
high volume of users. Specifically, Vi added 30 new 
sites in Triveni Sangam, upgraded 272 sites, added 
46 small-cells, and laid 32 kilometers of fiber to 
strengthen the network. Additionally, Vi launched the 
“Vi Number Rakshak” initiative to reunite lost pilgrims 
with their families. This initiative provided pilgrims, 
especially those without phones, with Rudraksh and 
Tulsi bead bracelets engraved with emergency contact 
numbers. This not only kept the pilgrims safe but also 
won appreciation from the local authorities and the 
lost-and-found pilgrims.
2.	
Market initiatives to improve ARPU and drive 
retention
	
With the successful FPO in April 2024, your Company 
started the year with the promise of a stronger network 
and the confidence of delivering a superior customer 
experience during the Financial Year 2024-25. With 
that cognizance that the capex cycle will start taking 
effect during the year, your Company took upon the 
challenge of delivering a strong growth story during the 
Financial Year with a focus on both customer retention 
and ARPU growth.
	
Your Company initiated the rollout of 5G services in 
March 2025 and as of date of this report, 5G services 
are now available in cities of Mumbai, Delhi, Chandigarh 
and Patna. Expansion efforts are underway to offer 
5G services in all the 17 circles with 5G spectrum 
by August 2025. Your Company has the advantage 
of having the latest 4G equipment and technologies 
which are capable of upgrading to 5G. Your Company’s 
4G network has been strategically deployed with a 
future-proof architecture, and all new basebands 
and over 90% of the Time Division Duplex (“TDD”) 
2500 MHz band radio units are 5G-ready with 10G 
bandwidth capability. Your Company has also deployed 
various advanced 5G technologies including Massive 
Multiple-Input Multiple-Output (“Massive MIMO”) for 
improved capacity, and Open Radio Access Network 
(“ORAN”) for increased flexibility. As of March 31, 2025, 
your Company deployed ~76,300 TDD radios, ~13,700 
Massive MIMO sites, and ~14,900 small cells.
	
In this endeavor, your Company prides itself in always 
taking the lead in creating innovative, game changing 
and industry-first propositions in the marketplace, that 
offer maximum value to the customers and gives them 
strong reasons to choose us. This allows us to create 
the necessary differentiation in the marketplace and 
stay competitive while retaining and upgrading the 
valuable base of high ARPU customers.
	
Your Company’s network also includes new unified 
roadmap architectures of Virtualized Radio Access 
network (“vRAN”) and ORAN solutions as well as 
E-band technology. The Pan-India core network is 
fully equipped to support 5G non-standalone (NSA) 
technology. This advanced network architecture is 
designed to handle the high throughput and diverse use 
cases associated with 5G, encompassing both mobile 
and enterprise segments. Your Company’s 5G-ready 
architecture enables latency reduction and helps us 
deliver an enhanced customer experience.
	
To this effect, your Company kickstarted the year with 
the launch of the ‘Vi-Guarantee’ program. With your 
Company’s 5G launch slated for Q4 and competition 
14


--- Page 22 ---
Corporate
Governance Report
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
Financial
Statements
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
offering free 5G on all its data plans, it was felt necessary 
to offer a sufficient counter and attractive benefit for 
our loyal customers. Vi Guarantee offered the promise 
‘130 GB Data – Milega hi Milega’. All our loyal prepaid 
customers using 5G or new 4G handsets, who recharged 
with data plans starting 1GB or more were offered 10 
GB extra data during the month, every month for 13 
months as long as they continued to recharge on our 
1GB+ data plans. This program was launched across 
the country with significant execution intensity on 
the ground across our trade and retail channels. The 
program also garnered significant organic attention on 
social media with related content garnering over 400 Mn 
views. This successful program saw participation from 
over 20 Million customers and a large share of which 
were shifted from Voice Only or Low ARPU Data Plans 
to high ARPU Data plans, helping to not only improve 
our subscriber mix and drive ARPU improvement but 
also drive retention and boost revenue.
taking good effect, we decided to further revitalize 
our product portfolio to bring our ‘Hero’ products 
back into focus. The ‘Vi Hero Unlimited’ – launched 
in FY21 and offering free night data (12 AM – 6 AM), 
Weekend Data Rollover and two turns of Data Delight 
(free 1GB Data sachet) has been a very successful 
and popular product that has attracted and retained 
a large share of our data plan subscribers, allowing us 
to extract higher ARPU from this audience. This year, 
we decided to extend it further by introducing the 
‘Vi Super Hero’ at a premium price point. This innovative 
and game-changing product retains the benefits of 
hero and extends it further by offering Unlimited data 
for half day from 12 AM to 12 PM and 2GB/Day for 
the rest of the day. Furthermore, to offer higher value 
to our subscribers in some of our opportunity markets 
such as Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh 
& Telangana and Karnataka, your Company launched 
the ‘Vi Non-Stop Hero’ proposition which offered truly 
Unlimited Data 24x7.
	
Your Company’s priority remains on driving ARPU 
improvement. In July 2024, your Company implemented 
targeted tariff interventions aimed at improving return 
on investments and enhancing cash flow generation—
critical for funding our large-scale network investments. 
While these steps are in the right direction, the industry 
still requires further tariff rationalization to achieve 
sustainable cost-of-capital returns.
	
A combination of differentiated product propositions, 
marketing initiatives, customer service experience 
improvements and execution intensity on the ground 
has been contributing to growth. To address diverse 
customer needs, we offer a comprehensive range of 
feature-rich postpaid plans. Your Company also rolled 
out Vi Max Limitless Postpaid Data Plans across a 
few markets, offering truly unlimited high-speed data 
along with premium entertainment content and other 
value-added services. The postpaid business continues 
to show robust performance, with consistent growth 
in the subscriber base on both a quarterly and yearly 
basis. While much of this growth is driven by the M2M 
segment, individual postpaid customers have also 
steadily increased.
	
The most significant intervention undertaken during 
the year was the effectuation of tariff revisions at the 
beginning of Q2. With hyper-competition over the 
years, industry ARPUs have been unsustainably low and 
therefore, your Company undertook upward revision or 
prices of all major voice and data plans. However, given 
the large strata of customers that we serve, including 
segments that are extremely price sensitive, your 
Company also took the balanced approach of retaining 
some of the old price points with reduced benefits. 
This balanced approach allowed your Company to 
maximize ARPU growth while minimizing customer 
losses, leading to better revenue outcomes compared 
to earlier occasions when such large-scale panoramic 
tariff revisions were undertaken.
	
As our investments started to materialize on the ground 
at a large scale and our network expansion started 
	
To supplement our expanded footprint and ambitious 
customer growth plans, our company’s propositions 
continue to serve as a core differentiator and attract 
customers by offering disproportionate value and 
benefits. Our ‘Vi Max Postpaid’ plan continues to be 
the only postpaid plan in the country which offers 
customers the option of choosing their benefit from 
a wide array of entertainment and lifestyle options 
such as Jio Hotstar, SonyLIV, Swiggy One, EazyDiner, 
Norton and EaseMyTrip. In Financial Year 2024-25, 
15
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 23 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
Vi stores and Mini stores across 600 cities and towns. 
Together, these stores employ more than 9,000 
people directly and indirectly. These stores not only 
enhance accessibility for customers in smaller towns 
but also offer grassroot entrepreneurial opportunities 
through Vi’s franchise model. The Company supports 
new partners with setup and operational guidance. 
While a large share of our customer concerns is 
resolved digitally through Vi App, we still serve over 
we also refreshed our premium and flagship ‘Vi RedX 
postpaid’ plan, which packs in the best of benefits and 
disproportionate value that a telecom plan can offer. 
With bundled offering of Netflix, SonyLIV, Jio Hotstar, 
EazyDiner and Norton, along with free access to 3 
International lounges & 1 Domestic Lounge and a free 
International Roaming pack worth up to ₹2999 in a year, 
the RedX plan packs in a formidable punch and helps 
Vi attract the most elite and premium customers in 
the market, boosting both ARPU and stickiness.
50,000 customers daily across retail touchpoints. A 
key component of its service model is the ‘Vi Priority’ 
counter, available in all flagship stores, which offers 
fast-track service for senior citizens, expectant 
mothers, and long-term customers. These customers 
are assisted by the most experienced relationship 
managers, with reduced wait times.
	
Alongside, your Company continues to aggressively 
focus on digitalization of customer servicing as well 
acquisition across all touch points. Your Company 
now has digital acquisition across major cities in India, 
for both prepaid and postpaid customers, including 
same day doorstep delivery and digital KYC processes, 
	
Your Company has significantly enhanced its 
international roaming services, expanding coverage 
to over 180+ countries world-wide. Notably, Vi is 
the only operator offering unlimited data and calls 
in as many as 40 countries, ensuring seamless and 
worry-free connectivity for travelers. To further enrich 
the travel experience, Vi has partnered with Blue 
Ribbon Bags, a US-based lost baggage concierge 
service, to offer baggage protection for its postpaid 
international roaming customers. These enhancements 
aim to address key travel concerns and provide a 
comprehensive and memorable international travel 
experience for Vi customers.
serviced through its dedicated delivery partners as well 
as own stores.
	
These strategic initiatives reaffirm our commitment 
to delivering customer-centric innovation, addressing 
real-world needs, while elevating brand relevance, 
category leadership and leading the way in enhancing 
mobile connectivity and service experience.
3.	
Focus on Business Services and new fast 
growing segments
	
With our endeavor to transition from a telecom operator 
	
To enhance digital wellbeing and customer safety, 
your Company launched an AI/ML-powered spam 
management solution that detects and filters 
unsolicited and potentially harmful messages in 
real-time. The system continuously adapts to evolving 
spam patterns and also tags suspicious messages 
as ‘Suspected Spam.’ In parallel, it is strengthening 
safeguards against spam voice calls and simplifying 
spam complaint filing through our App. It also 
proactively educates users on identifying phishing 
attempts, reinforcing a secure and trusted mobile 
experience.
to a technology-driven enterprise solution provider, 
Vi Business has been building a robust portfolio of 
integrated digital services that address the evolving 
needs of enterprises and thus drive innovation across 
enterprise mobility, fixed-line connectivity, business 
communication, messaging and IoT. Our foray into 
high demand emergent businesses such as security, 
cloud and colocation services is further expanding our 
	
As a part of Customer excellence drive, your Company 
expanded its retail presence by opening more than 
100 new flagship stores over the past six months to 
focus on customer experience. This expansion brings 
the total number of Vi flagship stores to over 500 
nationwide, all directly operated by the Company in 
metro and Tier 1 markets. Additionally, our overall 
physical retail footprint now includes more than 2,500 
technology footprints.
16


--- Page 24 ---
Corporate
Governance Report
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
Financial
Statements
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
partnership includes localized tools, training content 
in Bengali, and extensive capacity-building workshops 
to promote technology adoption.
	
Vi Business launched Vi RBM (Rich Business 
Messaging) service in 2023 and became the 1st RBM 
service provider in the country. Vi RBM is a technology 
that enhances how businesses communicate with their 
customers via rich, interactive messages which enables 
delivery of videos, pdf. This messaging platform allows 
businesses to send richer media, include interactive 
elements, and engage in two-way conversations with 
customers.
	
Recognizing the critical importance of digital safety, Vi 
Business is also investing in cybersecurity services to 
help enterprises navigate a complex threat landscape. 
Our cybersecurity suite offers proactive threat 
monitoring, holistic protection for applications and 
infrastructure, and expert-led, customized compliance 
strategies-helping clients operate securely and with 
confidence.
	
Your Company offers IoT and integrated IoT solutions 
across smart mobility, smart infrastructure and smart 
utility, and aims to strengthen its market leadership 
in IoT connectivity across key sectors such as vehicle 
tracking, utilities, point of sale and automotives. It 
also seeks to drive category growth through research 
and development initiatives around new IoT use cases, 
offering dedicated IoT lab and consultation services.
	
The Enterprise segment remains one of your Company’s 
key strengths, driven by longstanding relationships with 
enterprise clients and the ability to leverage Vodafone 
Group’s extensive experience across global markets. 
In line with the strategic vision of transforming from a 
traditional Telco to a TechCo, your Company continues 
to make strong progress by expanding its service 
portfolio beyond core connectivity. This transformation 
is gaining traction, with notable growth observed in 
several non-mobility enterprise segments despite a 
challenging environment. Collaborations with multiple 
partners are further enhancing the relevance and value 
of our offerings, enabling us to better meet the evolving 
needs of enterprise customers.
	
Your Company also provides integrated end-to-end 
customer solutions. By creating a multi-cloud 
marketplace through a combination of own assets 
and through strategic collaborations, it aims to offer 
customers greater flexibility and choice in connection 
with their preferred service providers. Your Company 
is in the process of developing colocation and IaaS 
(Infrastructure-as-a-Service) services to accelerate 
digital transformation by simplifying and optimizing 
IT infrastructure management for businesses. 
Your Company aims to streamline mobile device 
deployment, management, and security, and provide 
cybersecurity solutions through Vi Secure.
4.	
Driving Partnerships and Digital Revenue 
Streams
	
Vi Business has been at the forefront of driving digital 
transformation among India’s MSMEs. Over the past 
three years, we have engaged nearly 200,000 MSMEs 
through the ‘Ready for Next’ digital self-assessment 
platform. This initiative empowers businesses to 
evaluate their digital maturity across three key pillars: 
Digital Customer, Digital Workspace, and Digital 
Business. On World MSME Day, Vi Business launched 
the ‘MSME Growth Insights Study 2.0’-India’s largest 
digital maturity research initiative, developed in 
collaboration with Dun & Bradstreet. Spanning 16 
industries, the study provides valuable insights into 
the evolving MSME ecosystem, sector-specific digital 
trends, and the broader digitalization roadmap.
	
To further support the digital journey of MSMEs, your 
Company introduced the upgraded ‘Ready for Next’ 
tool 3.0, now available in both English and Hindi to 
improve accessibility. Reinforcing regional outreach, 
your Company also signed an MoU with the West 
Bengal State Export Promotion Society to accelerate 
the digital transformation of MSMEs in the state. This 
	
Your Company has entered into strategic collaborations 
with content providers, entertainment providers and 
e-commerce players. This network allows to combine 
expertise and resources, creating a powerful ecosystem 
that benefits all stakeholders, and enables your 
Company to deliver a differentiated experience. Further, 
the entertainment and media collaborations support 
ARPU growth through the delivery of an enhanced user 
experience. This enables your Company to combine its 
17
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 25 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
core strengths in connectivity and digital solutions with 
these collaborations, creating unique service offerings 
that address specific customer needs.
in ARPU. Further, out of 3 private mobile operators 
your Company’s share of gross ads is higher than 
its Customer Market Share showing that it is able to 
attract customers to its network. All of this is possible 
as your Company is following its strategy and remains 
focused on providing great data and voice experience 
and is building a differentiated digital experience adding 
several digital offerings.
	
During the year, Vi Movies & TV was relaunched in 
a new avatar as a paid subscription service offering 
multiple OTTs under one plan, specifically targeting 
Smart TV consumers, who can get all their favourite 
OTTs through one plan. Company has brought 17 OTT 
partners onboard for this offering. Additionally, the 
subscription also allows access to 350+ TV channels. 
In order to offer a superlative viewing experience with 
a convenience of discovering all the content from the 
partner Apps, all new mobile Apps have been developed 
for both Android & iOS as well as TV Apps for multiple 
operating systems like Google TV, Samsung, Firestick 
& LG.
	
During the year, your Company marked an important 
milestone in April 2024, by raising ` 180 Bn through 
Further Public Offer (‘FPO’), the largest FPO in the 
country in 2024. The overwhelming success of this 
FPO is testimony to the confidence and trust that has 
been reposed in your Company by each and every one 
of its investors who have rallied behind the Company 
in large numbers leading to the issue being subscribed 
almost 7 times.
	
In addition to FPO,
 
• 
Aditya Birla Group - Promoter group entity 
contributed ` 20.8 Bn through preferential 
issuance of Equity Shares at an issue price of 
 
` 14.87 per Equity Shares.
 
• 
The Company did preferential allotment for an 
aggregate consideration of ` 24.6 Bn at an issue 
price of ` 14.80 per share to Nokia Solutions and 
Networks India Private Limited and Ericsson India 
Private Limited.
	
Your Company recently enabled the Vi app to be used 
for a recharge by all prepaid users when their daily data 
gets over or even after their plan validity is over, to make 
it easier for them to renew their prepaid mobile without 
hunting for wifi / hot-spot or go into the market to a 
shop to buy one. It has also enabled UPI autopay for all 
prepaid recharges to make it convenient for consumers 
and not let their services get disrupted,  in case they 
missed the expiry date. It is through initiatives like 
these, helping us grow our engagement on Vi App 
and are also showing in improving customer ratings. 
Vi App is now rated best-in-class amongst all telcos 
on Playstore.
 
• 
Vodafone Group Plc. - Promoter group entity 
contributed ` 19.8 Bn through preferential 
issuance of Equity Shares at an issue price of 
 
` 11.28 per Equity Shares.
In line with the Telecom Reforms Package of 2021 and 
continuous dialogue with the Government of India (GOI) 
and the DoT for conversion of spectrum auction dues of 
 
	
Your Company has thus been making significant 
progress on various strategic initiatives and continues 
to strive towards transforming from a pure play mobile 
operator to a truly integrated digital service provider. 
Your Company is thus committed to delivering 
best-in-class services to their subscribers and bridging 
the digital divide that separates urban from rural.
` 369.5 Bn into Equity Shares, an order was received by 
the Company to issue and allot 36.95 Bn Equity Shares at 
an issue price of ` 10/- each. With this, GoI shareholding 
increased from 22.6% to 48.99% whilst the Promoter 
shareholding stood at 25.6%. The promoters continue to 
have operational control of the Company.
	
On the back of these strategic initiatives, your 
Company reported annual revenue and EBITDA 
(pre-IndAS 116) growth for the third consecutive year 
on the back of consistently improving performance 
for the last several quarters despite significantly lower 
investments vs competition; clearly reflecting its ability 
to execute and compete effectively in this market. Your 
Company reported 14 quarters of sequential growth 
Considering all above, your Company has successfully issued 
equity of ~ ` 614 Bn in Financial Year 2024-25.
18


--- Page 26 ---
Corporate
Governance Report
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
Financial
Statements
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
` 435,713 Mn, reflecting an increase of ` 9,196 Mn over 
 
FINANCIAL RESULTS AND SUMMARY
` 426,517 Mn reported for the year ended March 31, 2024, 
primarily due to tariff hike.
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared 
in accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) 
notified under section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read 
with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014.
Other income comprising of interest income, gain on 
investments in mutual funds, Profit on sale of equity 
instruments, and others, increased by ` 9,074 Mn from 
 
`
` 1,132 Mn for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024 to 
 
The standalone and consolidated financial highlights of your 
Company for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025 are 
summarised as follows:
(in ` Mn)
` 10,206 Mn for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025. 
The increase was primarily due to increase in interest income 
by ` 9,270 Mn.
Particulars
Standalone
Consolidated
2024-25
2023-24
2024-25
2023-24
430,450
422,454
434,557
425,727
Income from sale of goods 
and services
Other Operating Income
1,123
757
1,156
790
Operating expenses: Total operating expenditure 
decreased by ` 810 Mn from ` 255,257 Mn for the Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2024 to ` 254,447 Mn for the Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2025
Other Income
10,259
614
10,206
1,132
Total Income
441,832
423,825
445,919
427,649
Cost of trading goods: Cost of trading goods 
decreased by ` 139 Mn from ` 156 Mn for the year ended 
 
Expenses
258,261
258,009
254,447
255,257
March 31, 2024 to ` 17 Mn for the year ended March 31, 2025 
 
EBITDA
183,571
165,816
191,472
172,392
214,112
219,883
219,732
226,335
primarily due to a decrease in volume of data cards sold 
during the year.
Depreciation and 
Amortisation
EBIT
(30,541)
(54,067)
(28,260)
(53,943)
Finance Cost
245,301
257,630
245,434
257,655
EBT
(275,842)
(311,697)
(273,694)
(311,598)
Exceptional Items (Net)
1,421
7,555
- 
7,555
Employee benefit expenses: Employee benefit expenses 
increased by `1,085 Mn from ` 21,224 Mn for the Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2024 to ` 22,309 Mn for the Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2025, primarily due to increments in 
salary during the year.
Share of JV/Associates
-
-
18
(55)
Profit /(Loss) Before Tax
(274,421)
(304,142)
(273,676)
(304,098)
Taxes
- 
8,220
158
8286
Profit/(Loss) after Tax
(274,421)
(312,362)
(273,834)
(312,384)
Network expense and IT outsourcing cost: Network 
expense and IT outsourcing cost decreased by ` 3,713 Mn 
from ` 98,104 Mn for the year ended March 31, 2024 to 
 
` 94,391 Mn for the year ended March 31, 2025 primarily due 
to decrease in repairs and maintenance - plant and machinery 
expenses, power and fuel expenses, IT outsourcing cost & 
lease line and connectivity charges.
Standalone revenue of your Company stood at ` 431,573 
Mn, an increase of 1.98% over previous year. The EBITDA 
stood at ` 183,571 Mn, registering an increase of 10.71% 
over the previous year. The Loss after tax of the Company 
for the Financial Year 2024-25 stood at ` 274,421 Mn vis-
à-vis ` 312,362 Mn for the previous year.
License fees and spectrum usage charges: License fees 
and spectrum usage charges increased by ` 236 Mn from 
 
` 36,726 Mn for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024 to 
` 36,962 Mn, for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025.
On a consolidated basis, the revenue of your Company stood 
at ` 435,713 Mn, an increase of 2.16% over the previous year. 
The EBITDA stood at ` 191,472 Mn registering an increase 
of 11.07% over the previous year. The loss after tax of the 
Company stood at ` 273,834 Mn for Financial Year 2024-25 
vis-à-vis ` 312,384 Mn for the previous year.
Roaming and access charges: Roaming and access 
charges increased by ` 4,797 Mn from ` 41,177 Mn for the 
Financial Year ended March 31, 2024 to ` 45,974 Mn for the 
Financial Year ended March 31, 2025, primarily on account 
of increase in termination charges and roaming charges.
Discussions on consolidated financial results
Revenue: For the Financial Year ending March 31, 2025, 
 
the Company recorded a revenue from operations of 
 
Subscriber acquisition and servicing expenditure: 
Subscriber acquisition and servicing expenditure, decreased 
by ` 1,883 Mn from ` 42,806 Mn for the Financial Year ended 
19
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 27 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
March 31, 2024 to ` 40,923 Mn for the Financial Year ended 
March 31, 2025 primarily on account of decrease in Cost 
of sim and Collection, telecalling and servicing expenses.
Finance Cost for Financial Year ended March 31, 2025 
decreased by ` 12,221 Mn from ` 257,655 Mn for the 
Financial Year ended March 31, 2024 to ` 245,434 Mn for 
the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025, due to decrease 
in interest on fixed period loan and certain reversals in other 
interest charges offset by increase in interest on Deferred 
payment obligation towards spectrum & AGR dues.
Advertisement, business promotion expenditure 
and content cost: Advertisement, business promotion 
expenditure and content cost decreased by ` 647 Mn from 
` 5,647 Mn for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024 to 
 
` 5,000 Mn for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025 
primarily due to a decrease in content cost.
Profits and taxes: The loss before tax for the Financial Year 
ended March 31, 2025 stood at ` 273,676 Mn as compared 
to a loss of ` 304,098 Mn for the Financial Year ended 
 
March 31, 2024. The loss after tax for the Financial Year ended 
 
March 31, 2025 stood at ` 
273,834 Mn as compared to a loss of 
 
` 312,384 Mn for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024.
Other expenses: Other expenses decreased by ` 546 Mn 
from ` 9,417 Mn for the Financial Year ended March 31, 
2024 to ` 8,871 Mn for the Financial Year ended March 31, 
2025 primarily due to lower Bad debts.
The composition of total operating expenses (amount and 
percentage to total operating expenses) are as follows:
Capital expenditure: During the Financial Year 2024-25, 
capital expenditure (including capital advances and excluding 
RoU assets and spectrum) incurred was ` 94,103 Mn. 
 
Composition of Operating Expenses
In addition ` 3,976 Mn was incurred towards bandwidth and 
 
` 34,967 Mn towards spectrum acquisition.
8,871 
3%
5,000 
2%
Employee beneﬁt expenses
22,309
9%
Balance sheet:
Network expenses and IT outsourcing cost
License fees and spectrum usage charges
40,923
16%
Roaming and access charges
45,974
18%
Subscriber acquisition and servicing 
expenditure
Advertisement, business promotion 
expenditure and content cost
• 
The gross and net block of property, plant and 
equipment and intangible assets (including capital work 
in progress and intangible assets under development) 
stood at ` 3,456,635 Mn and ` 1,595,318 Mn 
respectively.
Other expenses
36,962 
15%
94,391 
37%
Earning before finance costs, depreciation, 
amortisation, exceptional items and taxes (EBITDA):
• 
Non-current and current financial assets increased by 
` 103,382 Mn from ` 98,848 Mn to ` 202,230 Mn 
primarily due to increase in fixed deposits with banks 
including margin money.
The EBITDA has increased by ` 19,080 Mn from 
 
• 
Other assets (non-current and current) increased by 
 
` 172,392 Mn for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024 to 
 
` 13,646 Mn from ` 167,356 Mn to ` 181,002 Mn 
primarily due to increase in GST recoverable and capital 
advances.
` 191,472 Mn for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025. 
EBITDA as a percentage of Total Income increased to 42.94% 
for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025, compared to 
40.31% for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024.
• 
The paid-up Equity Share Capital of the Company 
increased by ` 212,732 Mn during the year due to:
	
a.	
Issuance of 16,363,636,363 Equity Shares of 
 
face value of ` 10/- each per Equity Share through 
FPO
Depreciation, amortisation and finance costs: The 
depreciation charge for the year has decreased by ` 4,778 
Mn from ` 138,715 Mn for the Financial Year ended March 
31, 2024 to ` 133,937 Mn for the Financial Year ended 
March 31, 2025. The amortisation charge for the year has 
decreased by ` 1,825 Mn from ` 87,620 Mn for the Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2024 to ` 85,795 Mn for the Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2025.
	
b.	
Issuance of 160,000,000 Equity Shares of face 
value of ` 10/- each per Equity Share pursuant to 
conversion of Optionally Convertible Debentures 
(OCDs)
20


--- Page 28 ---
Corporate
Governance Report
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
Financial
Statements
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
	
c.	
Issuance of 4,749,456,199 Equity Shares of face 
value of ` 10/- each per Equity Share through 
preferential allotment and
March 31, 2025 mainly due to increase in deferred 
revenue and advance from customer and taxes, 
regulatory, statutory liabilities offset by reduction 
in current tax liability.
	
d.	
Issuance of 122,064 Equity Shares of face value 
of ` 10/- per Equity Share under Employee Stock 
Option Scheme (ESOS).
• 
Other Equity:
The Company’s Other Equity improved from 
 
Cash Flow Statement: The cash generated from 
operations of ` 92,906 Mn, issue of share capital through 
FPO (net of share issue expenses of ` 3,041 Mn) of ` 176,959 
Mn, issue of share capital through preferential allotment 
(net of share issue expenses of ` 18 Mn) of ` 64,412 Mn, 
proceeds from borrowings of ` 10,000 Mn, interest received of 
 
` (1,542,866) Mn as of March 31, 2024, to 
 
` (1,417,132) Mn as of March 31, 2025. This movement 
is attributable to:
	
a.	
Conversion of Government of India loan amounting 
to ` 369,500 Mn, disclosed as share application 
amount pending allotment.
	
b.	
An increase in securities premium of ` 30,240 
Mn, arising from the FPO and Preferential Issue.
` 4,523 Mn and other cash inflows of ` 229 Mn which was 
primarily used for repayment of ` 160,003 Mn towards lease 
liabilities and borrowings, payment of ` 20,902 Mn towards 
interest and finance charges, payment of ` 98,353 Mn 
towards capital expenditure (net of sale proceeds), payment 
of ` 5,037 Mn towards deferred payment obligation towards 
spectrum, upfront payment of ` 3,315 Mn towards spectrum 
and placement of fixed deposits with banks having maturity 
of 3-12 months of ` 60,529 Mn. Consequently, cash and 
cash equivalents as at March 31, 2025 stood at ` 2,568 Mn.
	
c.	
Loss for the year amounting to ` (273,834) 
Mn and Other Comprehensive loss for the year 
amounting to ` (172) Mn.
	
• 
As on March 31, 2025, the total equity stood at 
 
Significant Changes in Key Financial Ratios Based 
on Standalone Financials
The key financial ratios are as under:
` (703,202) Mn as compared to the total equity 
of ` (1,041,668) Mn for the Financial Year ended 
 
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
March 31, 2024.
17
18
Debtors Turnover Ratio (number of 
days)(1)
Current Ratio(2)
0.82
0.34
Debt Equity Ratio(3)
(2.81)
(2.01)
Debt Service Coverage Ratio (‘DSCR’)(4)
0.38
0.24
Interest Service Coverage Ratio (‘ISCR’)(5)
0.41
0.30
Operating Profit Margin (%)(6)
-9%
-13%
Net Profit Margin (%)(7)
-64%
-74%
	
• 
Long term and short-term borrowings decreased 
by ` 113,336 Mn and stood at ` 1,962,962 Mn as 
on March 31, 2025 primarily due to conversion of 
deferred payment obligation liability into equity 
shares and disclosed as share application amount 
pending allotment, repayment of bank loans and 
conversion of OCDs into Equity Shares which is 
offset by annual interest accreted on spectrum 
and AGR obligation.
Return on Net Worth (%)(8)
NA
NA
	
• 
Non-current and other current financial liabilities 
decreased by ` 97,963 Mn and stood at 
 
1	
Debtors turnover ratio (number of days) = [(Average trade 
receivables)/(Revenue from operations)*Number of days during 
the year]
` 626,260 Mn for the Financial Year ended 
 
2	
Current ratio = Current asset/ Current liabilities (excluding short 
term borrowings)
March 31, 2025 primarily due to decrease in 
interest accrued but not due, trade payables and 
payables for capital expenditure.
3	
Debt equity ratio = Debt (excluding interest accrued but not 
due)/ Equity
	
• 
Non-current and other current liabilities and 
provisions increased by ` 1,359 Mn and stood at 
 
4	
DSCR =[Profit/(loss) before exceptional items and tax + 
Depreciation & amortisation expenses (excluding depreciation 
on ROU assets) + Finance costs (excluding fair value gains/
losses on derivatives and interest on lease liabilities)] / [Finance 
` 92,479 Mn for the Financial Year ended 
 
21
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 29 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
Limited, vendors of the Company on preferential basis 
at an issue price of ` 14.80 per Equity Share.
costs (excluding fair value gains/losses on derivatives and 
interest on lease liabilities) + Interest capitalised + Scheduled 
long term principal repayments (excluding prepayments)]
5	
ISCR = [Profit/(loss) before exceptional items and tax + 
Depreciation & amortisation expenses (excluding depreciation 
on ROU assets) + Finance costs (excluding fair value gains/
losses on derivatives and interest on lease liabilities)] / [Finance 
costs (excluding fair value gains/losses on derivatives and 
interest on lease liabilities) + Interest capitalised]
(c)	
In January 2025, your Company raised ` 19,100 Mn 
by issuing 1,08,45,94,607 Equity Shares to Omega 
Telecom Holdings Private Limited and 60,86,23,754 
Equity Shares to Usha Martin Telematics Limited, 
promoters of the Company on preferential basis at an 
issue price of ` 11.28 per Equity Share.
6	
Operating margin (%) = [Profit/(loss) before exceptional items 
and tax + Finance costs - Other income] / Revenue from 
operations
Conversion of OCDs into Equity Shares
7	
Net profit margin (%) = Net profit/(loss) after tax / Revenue from 
operations
8	
Not computed due to negative Net-worth as on March 31, 2025 
and March 31, 2024.
DIVIDEND
As your Company has incurred net loss during the Financial 
Year 2024-25, your Directors have not recommended any 
dividend for the year.
During the year under review, pursuant to the exercise of the 
option attached to the Optionally Convertible Debentures 
(OCDs) by the OCD Holder(s), issued by the Company in the 
Financial Year 2022-23, your Company in July 2024, allotted 
16,00,00,000 Equity Shares of face value of ` 10/- each 
against the conversion of balance 1,600 OCDs. With the 
said conversion, all outstanding OCDs stand converted into 
Equity Shares and there are no outstanding OCDs as at the 
end of the Financial Year.
TRANSFER TO RESERVES
Allotment under Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOS)
During the Financial Year under review, the Board has not 
proposed to transfer any amount to Reserves.
CHANGES IN SHARE CAPITAL
Further Public Offering
In July 2024, your Company issued and allotted 122,064 
Equity Shares of ` 10/- each, to the RSU grantees (employees 
/ Directors) pursuant to the exercise of Restricted Stock 
Units (RSU’s) by the eligible employees / Directors under 
the Employee Stock Option Scheme, 2013 (ESOS-2013).
During the year, your Company successfully completed Further 
Public Offering (“FPO”) of Equity Shares aggregating to 
 
Allotment of Equity Shares to Government of India
` 180 Bn, which was the largest FPO in India. Pursuant 
to the said FPO, on April 23, 2024 your Company issued 
and allotted 16,36,36,36,363 Equity Shares of face value 
 
` 10/- each at an Offer price of ` 11/- per Equity.
Preferential Issues
During the Financial Year under review, the following 
preferential issues were undertaken:
(a)	
In May 2024, your Company raised ` 20,750 Mn 
by issuing 1,39,54,27,034 Equity Shares to Oriana 
Investments Pte. Ltd. a Promoter Group Company on 
preferential basis at an issue price of ` 14.87 per Equity 
Share.
(b)	
In July 2024, your Company raised ` 24,580 Mn 
by issuing 1,02,70,27,024 Equity Shares to Nokia 
Solutions and Networks India Private Limited and 
63,37,83,780 Equity Shares to Ericsson India Private 
During the Financial Year, the Ministry of Communications, 
Government of India in line with the Reforms and Support 
Package for Telecom Sector announced in September 2021 
and in response to the Company’s request, issued an Order 
under Section 62(4) of the Companies Act, 2013 dated 
29 March 2025, for conversion of Deferred Payment 
obligations towards spectrum auction dues, including 
deferred dues repayable after expiry of the moratorium 
period, aggregating to ` 369,500 Mn into 36,95,00,00,000 
Equity Shares of the face value of ` 10/- each at an issue 
price of ` 10/- each. In compliance with Section 62(4) of 
the Companies Act, 2013, the Board of Directors of your 
Company has allotted 36,95,00,00,000 Equity Shares at an 
issue price of ` 10/- each on April 8, 2025 to the Department 
of Investment and Public Asset Management, Government 
of India (acting through President of India). As at March 
31, 2025, the Company has derecognized an amount of 
22


--- Page 30 ---
Corporate
Governance Report
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
Financial
Statements
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
` 369,500 Mn out of deferred payment obligation towards 
spectrum, and has disclosed the same as “Share application 
amount pending allotment” under Other Equity.
banks and financial institutions stood at ` 23,260 Mn, 
inter-company loan stood at ` 1,142 Mn and the payment 
obligations to the Government stood at ` 1,939,702 Mn 
(comprising deferred spectrum payment obligations of 
 
Authorised Share Capital
` 1,180,250 Mn and AGR liability of ` 759,452 Mn).
As at March 31, 2025, on a consolidated basis, the Company 
had cash and cash equivalents of ` 2,568 Mn and Fixed 
Deposits with banks having maturity of 3 to 12 months of 
 
During the year under review, pursuant to the approval 
granted by the shareholders at the Extra-ordinary General 
Meeting held on May 8, 2024, the Authorised Share Capital of 
the Company stands increased from ` 750,000 Mn (divided 
into ` 700,000 Mn Equity Share Capital and ` 50,000 Mn 
preference share capital) to ` 1,000,000 Mn (divided into 
 
` 950,000 Mn Equity Share Capital and ` 50,000 Mn 
preference share capital).
` 60,533 Mn (mainly FPO proceeds), the total debt from 
banks and financial institutions stood at ` 23,260 Mn 
and the payment obligations to the Government stood at 
` 1,939,702 Mn (comprising deferred spectrum payment 
obligations of ` 1,180,250 Mn and AGR liability of ` 759,452 Mn).
All scheduled loan repayments were made on respective 
 
due dates.
CREDIT RATING
As on March 31, 2025, the rating of Long Term Bank Facilities 
is CARE BB+ (Stable) and Short Term Bank Facilities is 
 
CARE A4+.
Further, consequent to the Order dated March 29, 
2025 issued by the Government of India, Ministry of 
Communications, under section 62(4) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 directing for conversion of Deferred Payment 
obligations towards spectrum auction dues amounting to 
` 369,500 Mn into 36,950 Mn Equity Shares, the Authorised 
Share Capital of the Company, stands increased by 
` 3,69,50,00,00,000 consisting of 36,95,00,00,000 Equity 
Shares of ` 10/- each, in accordance with Section 62(6) of 
the Companies Act, 2013.
Considering favorable developments, the credit rating of 
the Long Term Bank Facilities stands upgraded to CARE 
BBB- (Stable) and Short Term Bank Facilities to CARE A3, 
as of date of this report.
Accordingly, as of March 31, 2025, the Authorized share 
capital of the Company stands increased from ` 1,000,000 
Mn to ` 1,369,500 Mn.
Further, for certain Long Term Bank Facilities, in April 2025 
ICRA has assigned the rating of ICRA BBB- (Stable).
Paid-up Share Capital
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
Consequent to the aforesaid issuances as mentioned above, 
the issued, subscribed and paid-up Equity Share Capital as 
at end of March 31, 2025 stands at ` 7,13,93,03,50,010/- 
comprising of 71,39,30,35,001 Equity Shares of the face 
value of ` 10/- each.
On a standalone basis, for the Financial Year 2024-25, 
capital expenditure (including capital advances and excluding 
RoU assets and spectrum) incurred was ` 89,927 Mn. In 
addition, ` 3,976 Mn was incurred towards bandwidth and 
` 34,967 Mn towards spectrum acquisition.
Further, post allotment of Equity Shares to Government of 
India on April 8, 2025, the issued, subscribed and paid-up 
Equity Share Capital as of date of this report stands at 
 
` 10,83,43,03,50,010/- comprising of 1,08,34,30,35,001 
Equity Shares of the face value of ` 10/- each.
On a consolidated basis, for the Financial Year 2024-25, 
capital expenditure (including capital advances and excluding 
RoU assets and spectrum) incurred was ` 94,103 Mn. In 
addition ` 3,976 Mn was incurred towards bandwidth and 
` 34,967 Mn towards spectrum acquisition.
CASH, DEBT AND GOI OBLIGATION
FIXED DEPOSITS
As at March 31, 2025, on a standalone basis, the Company 
had cash and cash equivalents of ` 2,185 Mn and Fixed 
Deposits with banks having maturity of 3 to 12 months of 
` 60,531 Mn (mainly FPO proceeds), the total debt from 
Your Company has not accepted any fixed deposits and, as 
such, no amount of principal or interest was outstanding, 
as on the date of the Balance Sheet.
23
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 31 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
SIGNIFICANT DEVELOPMENTS
• 
AGR Matter
Government of India based on its foreseeable cashflows 
for arriving at an appropriate solution on the AGR 
matter before the next instalment date.
	
As at March 31, 2025, the net liability towards the AGR 
judgment amounting to ` 759,452 Mn (net of payment 
and conversion) of which ` 655,927 Mn is disclosed 
as Deferred Payment Obligation (DPO) under long 
term borrowings and the balance of ` 103,525 Mn as 
 
short-term borrowings in the financial statements.
• 
Issue of Equity Shares to Government of India
	
The Hon’ble Supreme Court had upheld the view 
considered by Department of Telecommunications 
(“DoT”) in respect of the definition of Adjusted Gross 
Revenue (“AGR”) (“AGR Judgment”) and confirmed 
the principal demand, levy of interest, penalty 
and interest on penalty resulting in significant 
financial implications on the Company. The Hon’ble 
Supreme Court also had vide its final order dated 
 
September 1, 2020, inter-alia directed that telecom 
operators shall after making payment of the first 
instance, make payment of 10% of the total dues 
as demanded by the DoT by March 31, 2021 and 
shall thereafter make payment in ten installments 
commencing from April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2031 
payable by 31st March of every succeeding Financial 
Year.
	
The Telecom Reforms Package of 2021 provided for 
deferment of AGR dues which are payable in annual 
instalments as determined by the Hon’ble Supreme 
Court for up to four years without any change in 
the instalment period and deferment of spectrum 
auction instalments payable from October 1, 2021 to 
September 30, 2025 excluding the installments due for 
spectrum auction conducted in 2021. It also provided 
upfront conversion on any of the interest amount 
arising due to such deferment into equity on an Net 
Present Value (NPV) basis. The Company had conveyed 
its acceptance for the deferment of Spectrum Auction 
installments and AGR Dues by a period of four years 
and on January 10, 2022 conveyed its acceptance for 
conversion of such interest on the deferred instalments 
related to deferred annual spectrum liabilities and 
AGR dues into shares in the Company. The DoT, on 
February 3, 2023, issued an Order under Section 62(4) 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”), directing the 
Company to issue equity shares against the loan of 
` 161,332 Mn representing NPV as at the date of 
exercise of option i.e. January 10, 2022. On February
 
	
The Union Cabinet on September 15, 2021 announced 
major structural and process reforms in the telecom 
sector (“Telecom Relief Package 2021”) and approved 
deferment up to four years for AGR dues and spectrum 
auction instalments payable from October 1, 2021 to 
September 30, 2025 excluding the instalments due 
for spectrum auction conducted post 2021, without 
any change in the overall tenure. On October 14, 2021, 
DoT issued the required notification giving an option 
for moratorium of Spectrum installments and AGR 
dues. The Company conveyed its acceptance for the 
deferment of Spectrum auction installmenlts and AGR 
dues by a period of four years. Resultantly, the next 
AGR instalment of ` 164,280 Mn is due on March 31, 
2026.
7, 2023, the Company’s Board approved allotment of 
shares to the Government of India (‘GoI’).
	
During the year, the Company’s Review Petition and a 
Curative Petition filed before the Hon’ble Supreme Court 
in FY22 and FY24 respectively have been dismissed.
	
Subsequently, in April 2025, the Company represented 
to DoT seeking certain relief on the AGR matter. 
Post disposal of the representation, the Company 
had filed a Writ Petition on May 13, 2025 seeking 
appropriate relief/direction in the matter before the 
Hon’ble Supreme Court, which was dismissed on 
 
May 19, 2025. In the Company’s view, this dismissal 
does not preclude it from further engaging with the 
	
In line with the Telecom Reforms Package of 2021 and 
in response to the Company’s request, DoT issued an 
Order under Section 62(4) of the Companies Act, 2013 
on March 29, 2025, to convert certain spectrum auction 
dues which were due after moratorium in FY26, FY27 
and FY28, amounting to ` 369,500 Mn (“Outstanding 
Spectrum Auction Dues”), into equity shares of the 
Company. Accordingly, the Company has discharged 
the aforesaid Outstanding Spectrum Auction Dues 
aggregating to ` 369,500 Mn on a present value basis, 
by issuing 36,950,000,000 Equity Shares at an issue 
24


--- Page 32 ---
Corporate
Governance Report
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
Financial
Statements
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
price of ` 10/- each on April 8, 2025. As at March 31, 
2025, the Company has derecognised an amount of 
 
` 369,500 Mn out of Deferred payment obligation 
towards spectrum (including related interest accrued 
thereon), and has disclosed the same as “Share 
application amount pending allotment” under Other 
Equity. Pursuant to the above, the GoI shareholding 
stands at 48.99% and the promoter shareholding 
stands at 25.57%. However, there is no change in the 
governance rights of your Company and the same 
remains with the Promoters.
• 
Spectrum Auction
your Company against each spectrum instalment, 13 
months prior to the installment falling due for the 
above auctions. As per your Company’s understanding 
of the terms and conditions, out of all the 5 auctions 
mentioned above, no BGs will be required to be 
provided by your Company for the 2012, 2014, 2015, 
2016 and 2021 auctions. However, there was a 
one-time partial shortfall only for the 2015 auction, 
where the NPV was calculated as ~` 6000 crore (by 
way of BG) or ` 5500 crore (by way of upfront cash 
payment), as conveyed by the DoT. This amount was 
later adjusted in the process of conversion of spectrum 
dues into equity stake held in April 2025. This step of 
BG waiver is a clear indication of the Government’s 
continued support to the private players of the Indian 
telecom industry.
• 
One Time Spectrum Charge Matter
	
In respect of levy of One Time Spectrum Charge 
(‘OTSC’), the DoT has raised demand on the Company 
and erstwhile Vodafone India Limited (VInl) and 
Vodafone Mobile Services Limited (VMSL) in January
 
	
In June 2024, your Company acquired 50 MHz of 
spectrum across low band and mid band spectrum (900 
MHz, 1800 MHz and 2500 MHz) in 11 circles at a total 
commitment of ` 3,510 Crore, at the spectrum auction 
conducted by the Department of Telecommunications 
(DoT). In addition to renewal of 900 MHz spectrum in 
Uttar Pradesh (West) and West Bengal circles, your 
Company has also enhanced its 900 MHz spectrum 
holding in 7 circles, namely Andhra Pradesh, Tamil 
Nadu, Karnataka, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh 
(East) and Kolkata, enabling it to dedicate adequate 
900 MHz band spectrum for 4G thereby enhancing the 
experience of its 4G customers in these large markets, 
particularly the indoor experience. In circles of Andhra 
Pradesh, Tamil Nadu (excluding Chennai), Punjab and 
large parts of Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh (East), 4G 
on sub GHz 900 band will be offered for the first time 
which will result in better coverage and experience. 
In addition to 900 MHz spectrum, your Company has 
also acquired 1800 MHz spectrum in Madhya Pradesh 
and 2500 MHz spectrum in Bihar, which will help in 
increasing the network capacity. Your Company already 
holds sufficient and competitive 5G spectrum in its 17 
priority circles.
• 
Bank Guarantee Waiver
2013 for spectrum beyond 6.2 MHz in respective 
service areas for retrospective period from July 1, 2008 
to December 31, 2012 and for spectrum held beyond 
4.4 MHz in respective service areas effective January 
1, 2013 till expiry of the period as per respective 
licenses. In the opinion of the Company, the above 
demand amounts to alteration of financial terms of 
the licenses issued in the past and therefore the 
Company filed a petition in the Hon’ble High Court of 
Bombay, which vide its Order dated January 28, 2013, 
had directed the DoT to respond and not to take any 
coercive action until the next date of hearing. Similarly 
erstwhile VInl and VMSL had filed a petition before the 
Hon’ble Tribunal Telecom Disputes Settlement and 
Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT) which vide its Order dated 
July 4, 2019 held that for spectrum below 6.2 MHz, 
OTSC is not chargeable and accordingly demand is 
set aside. For spectrum beyond 6.2 MHz, if spectrum 
is allotted after July 1, 2008, OTSC shall be levied 
from the date of allotment of such spectrum and if 
spectrum is allotted before July 1, 2008, OTSC shall 
be levied from January 1, 2013 till the date of expiry
 
	
In December 2024, under the Telecom Reforms 
Package 2021, the Department of Telecommunications 
(DoT) dispensed with the industry’s requirement of 
submission of Financial Bank Guarantees (BG) for the 
Spectrum acquired in Spectrum Auction held in 2012, 
2014, 2015, 2016 and 2021, subject to certain terms 
and conditions. Prior to this reform, BGs aggregating 
to ~` 24,800 Crore were required to be provided by 
of licenses and ordered DoT to issue revised demands, 
if any, as per terms of direction given. The Company’s 
25
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 33 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
appeal before the Hon’ble Supreme Court for levy of 
 
− Critical Telecom Infrastructure Rules
OTSC beyond 6.2 MHz, though initially dismissed, 
 
− Temporary Suspension of Services Rules
was reinstated following a review petition filed in this 
 
− Procedures and Safeguards for Lawful Interception 
regard. The DoT has also preferred an appeal against 
of Messages Rules
the TDSAT judgement for levy of OTSC on spectrum 
below 6.2 MHz. The matter is currently pending before 
the Hon’ble Supreme Court.
	
Your Company actively contributed to the consultations 
undertaken by the Government on the Rules and looks 
forward to their effective implementation.
• 
5G Launch
	
In March 2025, your Company launched 5G services 
in Mumbai, Maharashtra. As per initial reports, in the 
• 
E-band Spectrum Allocation: On January 28, 2025, 
the Company was allocated (on its application) E-band 
Spectrum in Delhi, Mumbai and Bihar for 1 carrier in 
each LSA necessary for expansion of 5G network.
areas where Vi 5G is live, over 70% of eligible users 
are experiencing Vi 5G. Subsequently, 5G services 
were launched in Patna and Chandigarh in April 2025, 
followed by launch in Delhi, with plans to launch in 
other cities in FY26. As part of its introductory offer, 
your Company’s users can enjoy unlimited 5G data on 
plans starting from ` 299 and experience 5G speed for 
various use cases like streaming, gaming, conferencing, 
fast downloads, and real-time cloud access.
• 
A m e n d m e n t to Te le co m C o m m e r cia l 
Communications Customer Preference 
Regulations, 2018 (TCCCPR): On February 12, 
2025, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India 
(TRAI) notified an amendment to the TCCCPR, 2018. 
As per the amendment, TSPs are required to accept 
complaints against spam after up to a week of 
receiving such calls, act on unregistered telemarketers 
faster (within five days), and impose lower tolerance 
thresholds for reported spammers.
REGULATORY DEVELOPMENTS
• 
Revised Quality of Service (QoS) Regulations: On 
August 2, 2024, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of 
India (TRAI) issued the revised QoS Regulations. These 
Regulations that came into effect from October 1, 2024 
further tightened the norms of QoS Performance and 
Reporting. The key norms include assessments going 
monthly (from quarterly), strict norms for call drops, 
coverage maps on TSP websites, soft penalties for 
network outage in a district for more than 4 hours etc.
• 
The Telecommunications Act, 2023: On December 
24, 2023, the Telecommunications Act 2023 was 
published. Since then, several Rules have been 
published under the Act, providing an implementing 
framework for the enactment of the several provisions 
of the Act. Most notably, the Rules have been published 
on:
	
These Regulations are in addition to your Company’s 
significant initiatives to address unsolicited commercial 
communications (UCC) and protect consumers 
from fraud. These measures include implementing 
140XX and 1600XX telemarketing numbers and 
integrating them with Distributed Ledger Technology 
(DLT) platform, developing a robust system to 
block invalid International Long-Distance Operator 
Codes, introducing URL whitelisting, ensuring 
linking a business (Principal Entity) with the specific 
telemarketers they authorize to send messages on 
their behalf for traceability and accountability in 
SMS communication and leveraging technologies 
such as AI and ML to identify and prevent spam in 
real-time. However, with TSPs taking measures to control 
spam, the industry is of the view that a collaborative 
effort is required, including the need of measures by 
the OTT communication platforms, which also offer 
communication services to citizens of the country.
 
− Right of Way Rules
 
− Digital Bharat Nidhi Rules (erstwhile USOF)
 
− Cyber Security Rules
• 
Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023: 
In January 2025, the Ministry of Electronics and 
Information Technology (MeitY) published the draft
 
26


--- Page 34 ---
Corporate
Governance Report
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
Financial
Statements
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Big Data, Advanced Analytics (Artificial Intelligence 
& Data Science) and Business Intelligence Edge
Rules, under the Digital Personal Data Protection Act 
2023, for public consultation. Industry discussions 
continue to ensure that the Rules protect personal 
data, while ensuring seamless compliance.
MARKETING AND OTHER INITIATIVES
Your Company has elevated both product and marketing 
differentiation to new heights, offering unique products and 
services. Some of these are:
India’s Telecom Sector serves over 1.1 Billion users and 
with one of the world’s most advanced and widely covered 
broadband networks. This access to communication and 
technology to every Indian is fueling an explosion of data 
usage, content, digital payments and a plethora of digital 
services that are touching and improving the lives of every 
Indian. For the telecom sector that serves literally the entire 
population across all segments and geographies, a nuanced 
understanding of all macro and micro factors at play is 
critical to effectively servicing the audience, because after 
all, the diversity in India is unmatched.
•	
Vi Business launched Easy+, an industry - first, 
innovative proposition on corporate postpaid plans, 
offering customers an option to select and directly 
purchase services like International roaming, OTT 
subscriptions and data packs for their personal use 
on their existing corporate plans. This service can be 
availed by downloading the Vi App.
•	
Personal cloud storage was another laudable feature 
launched in Vi Business Plus postpaid corporate plans, 
thus strengthening the overall product portfolio. 
With the extent of India’s geographic, economic, linguistic, 
cultural, occupational and behavioral diversity, your Company 
realized effectively cutting through this audience and 
successfully serving them will require the use of precise 
and large-scale self-learning predictive AI/ML models that 
can curate the offerings basis the unique needs of each 
segment and microcosm.
•	
Vi Business has launched Vi Business Assist, the 
transformative self-service platform that empowers 
businesses to streamline their telecom operations. The 
platform offers a range of features, including unified 
access to both Enterprise Mobility and Fixed Line 
services, comprehensive account management tools, 
simplified billing and payment options, and a mobile-
optimized design to ensure a seamless experience.
Sensing this opportunity, your Company was one of the first 
telcos in India to launch its own Big Data and advanced AI/
ML based cloud data analytics platform on AWS Cloud with 
a goal to establish a fast, scalable and cost-efficient model 
of servicing its vast customer base and drive business 
growth through precision marketing and customer-oriented 
service model.
•	
For our discerning audience, your Company partnered 
with renowned and sought-after personalities like 
Dinesh Karthik and Kalki Koechlin to create an aura 
around the premium products. These collaborations 
helped us connect with the target audience effectively 
and reinforced the aspirational appeal of the postpaid 
offerings.
Today, your Company hosts a state-of-the-art data science 
practice in house which leverages an advanced data lake 
and business intelligence platforms that’s seamlessly 
mated with AWS processing magnanimous volumes of data 
everyday. These massive data points are utilized by in-house 
AI/ML models to build recommendation engines, predict 
Churn, customer upgrades, cross selling opportunities and 
other such predictive engines that allows us to effectively 
segment and target the customers with curated offerings 
best suited to their needs, usage, paying capacity and 
consumer behavior. 
•	
As part of Vi Business’s thought leadership forum, a 
two-episode TV series of Vi TeeWalk Executive Turf 
Season 2 was telecast on CNBC TV18 with top industry 
leaders and policymakers exploring key developments 
on the critical topics of Artificial Intelligence and 
Cybersecurity that are shaping the future of India Inc.
•	
Vi Movies and TV - Enhancing the connected TV 
portfolio, we introduced a new Vi MTV 175 pack, 
combining data benefits with seamless access to high-
quality digital entertainment.
The AI/ML engines are further strengthened with an 
advanced MarTech suite that can effectively map the 
customers Telco usage and behavioral patterns along with 
footprints from customer touchpoints and journeys across 
the brand app, website and other 3rd Party platforms and 
27
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 35 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
wallets. This system helps us trigger precise, curated and 
real time alerts recommending their next recharge, plan, data 
top up and other offerings best suited to their needs. With 
these systems now gaining maturity and your Company is 
now being able to effectively deliver 2-5% incremental lift
 
telecom solutions, transforming their contact center 
operations and strengthening customer engagement and 
services. This collaboration marks Vi Business’s entry 
into Contact Centre as a Service (CCaaS) to introduce 
next-gen cloud CX solutions offering an AI powered, unified 
omnichannel customer experience.
in revenue generation or cost savings.
Today, your Company is deploying its Big Data Engines 
and Data Science practice to increase its subscriber 
base, enhance ARPU, optimize cost, augment operational 
efficiency, accelerate Digital adoptions for Consumers, 
Marketing, Digital and Enterprise offerings/services for 
Prepaid & Post-paid businesses.
Vi Business has entered into a strategic partnership with 
Infinity Labs Ltd to introduce a Make-in-India SDWAN 
solution as part of its Hybrid SDWAN portfolio. The 
collaboration enhances the portfolio by integrating advanced 
AI-based security features, offering Indian enterprises a 
robust defense against the growing threat of cyber-attacks 
and demonstrating Vi Business’s commitment to offer 
indigenous technology & nurture innovation.
Integrated IoT Solutions
Vi Business strengthened IoT solutions with Platform 
Innovations, Industry Milestones, and Strategic Partnerships.
We continued to evolve in tandem with the rapidly growing 
IoT ecosystem. The efforts this year have focused on 
enhancing platform capabilities to ensure we are future-
ready-delivering solutions that meet both regulatory 
compliance and operational efficiency for enterprises.
During Financial Year 2024-25, your Company also used 
Generative AI to create marketing campaigns and content 
with such impact and scale unheard of before. During the 
course of the year, we experimented extensively with the 
use of generative AI to create fast, scalable and curated 
video content – some of which were even commercially 
deployed by us in mainstream media with great effect and 
popular reception. Furthermore, one of such campaigns in 
partnership with Spotify (Vi Vibe Check) was recently ranked 
as one of the best campaigns on the Spotify platform. In 
this Campaign AI was used for generating both the content 
as well as suggesting the tracks and playlist for the user 
according to ‘his/her’ vibe or mood.
A significant step in this journey was the successful 
migration of the eSIM business to a new Connectivity 
Management Platform, completing the transition to IoT 
Smart Central-comprehensive, next-generation platform. 
This enables enterprises to take greater control through a 
self-service interface that supports end-to-end SIM lifecycle 
management, including diagnostics and billing.
Your Company has also been using AI extensively for 
Cybersecurity applications. We have deployed AI algorithms 
in-house for performing volumetric, frequency, URL, and 
calling pattern analyses to detect and flag spam messages – 
resulting in almost 2.5 Mn messages being flagged as SPAM 
everyday for the benefit and convenience of the customers 
in evading SPAM.
Partnerships & Alliances
In partnership with top security providers including FirstWave, 
Fortinet, Cisco, TrendMicro, IBM, and Netscout Arbor, 
In a landmark industry development, Vi Business became 
the first Indian telecom operator to launch a Multi-Operator 
eSIM solution for B2B customers, reaffirming the leadership 
in enterprise connectivity. We also expanded the offerings 
with value-added services such as Device Management for 
IoT devices, further strengthening integrated IoT ecosystem.
 Business has introduced 
 Secure, a comprehensive 
Vi-C-DOT IoT Lab, envisioned as a collaborative ecosystem 
for interoperability and standardization, is gaining industry
 
cyber security portfolio. This initiative equips enterprise 
clients with a suite of dependable, cutting-edge security 
solutions that cater to their present and future cyber security 
requirements.
Vi Business has embarked on a partnership with Genesys 
to enable Indian businesses with advanced cloud CX and 
momentum. With 26 certifications issued this year, the 
lab-offered under a unique Lab-as-a-Service model, the 
first of its kind in Indian telecom-has evolved into a Center 
of Excellence, co-creating future-ready use cases in 
partnership with technology innovators.
28


--- Page 36 ---
Corporate
Governance Report
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
Financial
Statements
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Awards and Recognitions
•	
Impact Influencer Awards-Silver for Ready4Next MSME: 
Best Multi Influencer Campaign.
Some key awards and recognitions received by your Company 
during the period are:
•	
Global winner of prestigious ICMG Global Award 2023 
for Best Digital Strategy Execution; Best Customer 
Centricity & Excellence.
• 
MarTech Excellence Award Quantic India (Category: 
Awarded to MarTech team for practicing innovative 
MarTech technology in digital channels).
• 
Flame Awards Asia 2024 by RMAI (Rural Marketing 
Association of India) - Category: Awarded to mPower 
team for best use of technology in Channel Development.
•	
Vi Foundation’s Jaadu Ginni Ka: Financial Literacy for 
All programme received Mahatma Award, 2024 for 
reducing inequality. Since 2018, Jaadu Ginni Ka has 
brought financial awareness to more than 1.7 crore 
people – almost half of them – women across the 
country.
• 
ET Retail Awards:
	
-	
Customer Engagement & Experience Initiative 
(Vi Shop).
•	
Recognised by Voice & Data at Telecom Leadership 
Forum for Sustainable Warehousing and Supply Chain 
Transformation under the category Corporate Social 
Responsibility. 
	
-	
Emerging E-Commerce Platform Of The Year 
(Vi Shop).
• 
CX Strategy Summit & Awards: Digital Experience 
Strategy of the Year (Vi Shop).
•	
BCWI Award: Top 100 companies for women in India by 
Avtar The Power of Diversity, for the third consecutive 
year.
• 
ET Brand Equity Martech Awards: Use of Marketing 
Automation (Silver Award).
•	
Vi is recognized among the Top 50 India’s Best 
Workplaces for ‘Building a Culture of Innovation by All’, 
certified by Great Place to Work Brand & Social Media. 
• 
RMAI (Rural Marketing Association of India) Award for 
Best Use of Technology for Channel Development in 
2024.
•	
Telecom Award at the 7th India DevOps Show 2025 
for Best Use of AI in DevOps.
• 
Best customer experience strategy for the year at the 
19th CX Strategy Summit & Awards 2025.
•	
Vi won the prestigious Cannes Lion award, London 
International awards along with Spikes Asia, The One 
show, D&AD, Kyoorius Awards and the SAMMIE awards 
for its Human Network Testing Campaign with the 
Dabbawalas. Additionally, this campaign won 3 Effies 
at its Asia Pacific edition 2024 and also secured Gold 
in the category Local, Regional or Market Specific 
Marketing award at the e4m Marketing Awards.
• 
Vi Business: CIO Choice Awards 2025 award for Digital 
Transformation Enabler (Large Enterprise).
•	
At The MOMMYs 2024 awards, Vi won ‘Best Social 
Media Brand- Telecom’.
•	
Frost & Sullivan Best Practices Tech Innovation 
Leadership for SIP Trunking Smart Mobility Solution.
•	
Voice & Data Excellence Award for IoT Smart Central.
•	
Asian Telecom 2025 award for Digital Initiative of the 
Year - Ready for Next MSME Program.
•	
At AFAQs Marketers ‘Xcellence Awards 2024’, Vi 
won 5 awards - 2 gold, 2 silver and 1 bronze for its 
‘Be Someone’s We’, Postpaid Choose your benefits 
campaign, performance marketing & Human Network 
Testing Campaigns.
•	
ET Brand Equity DG+ Award – Bronze for ‘Ready for 
Next’ Campaign for MSMEs.
•	
Vi won the Best Social media brand – Telecom and for 
the Be someone’s we Campaign at SAMMIE awards 
2024.
•	
Silver Feather Awards for Best New Product Launch 
(Vi Business Assist).
•	
Uttar Pradesh Summit - Leading Brand in Telecom 
Sector.
•	
Vi’s The Dabbawalas, Human Network Testing 
Campaign, Be Someone’s We Campaign and Postpaid 
Choose your benefits have won multiple awards at the 
29
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 37 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
ET Brand Equity Shark awards, DG+ awards and AFAQS 
BrandStoryz awards.
the total income stood at ` 789 Mn as compared to 
` 763 Mn in the previous year.
5.	
Vodafone Idea Communication Systems Limited 
(VICSL)
•	
Two Silver Digie Awards for Best use of Visuals in the 
Choose your benefits campaign and Best Social Media 
Strategy Award
•	
ET Brand Equity Brand Disruption Awards – Silver for 
Use of Content Marketing
SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES
	
VICSL is engaged in the business of trading of Mobile 
handsets, data card and related accessories and 
services. During the year under review, the total income 
stood at ` 341 Mn as compared to ` 387 Mn in the 
previous year.
As on March 31, 2025, your Company has nine Subsidiary
 
6.	
Vodafone Idea Shared Services Limited (VISSL)
Companies, details are given below:
Subsidiaries
1.	
Vodafone Idea Telecom Infrastructure Limited 
(VITIL)
	
VISSL is an outsourcing hub for Finance & Accounts, 
Human Resources, Supply Chain Management, Credit 
& Collection Support, Customer Support and catering 
to the Information Technology (IT) needs for data 
consolidation, back end IT support for the Company 
and its subsidiaries. During the year under review, the 
total income stood at ` 1,005 Mn as compared to 
` 944 Mn in the previous year.
	
VITIL is engaged in renting out passive infrastructure 
to telecommunication service providers for hosting 
their active equipment on existing fibre portfolio of 
~174,000 kms. During the year under review, the total 
income stood at ` 9,946 Mn as compared to ` 9,552 
Mn in previous year.
7.	
Vodafone Idea Technology Solutions Limited 
(VITSL)
2.	
Vodafone Idea Business Services Limited 
(VIBSL)
	
VIBSL is an outsourcing hub for backend IT support, 
data centre operations and hosting services to the 
Company and its Subsidiaries. It also has an OSP 
license business. During the year under review, the total 
income stood at ` 2,951 Mn as compared to ` 1901 
Mn in the previous year.
3.	
YOU Broadband India Limited (YBIL)
	
VITSL is engaged in providing Technology, Software, 
Hardware, Value Added Services (VAS), Application 
Software, Contents and related products and services 
that facilitate and develop access to IT enabled VAS 
products and services whether on single or multiple 
platform(s) or operating system(s). VITSL is also 
engaged in the business of providing Data Centre 
related services and IT Solutions (including E-SIMs) to 
its customers. During the year under review, the total 
income stood at ` 320 Mn as compared to ` 399 Mn 
in the previous year.
8.	
Vodafone Foundation (VF)
	
YBIL is engaged in providing high speed broadband 
internet access through cable network, high 
bandwidth internet broadband services to retail, 
enterprise segment, infrastructure support to licensed 
telecommunication service providers. During the year 
under review, the total income stood at ` 991 Mn as 
compared to ` 1,191 Mn in the previous year.
4.	
Vodafone Idea Manpower Services Limited 
(VIMSL)
	
VIMSL is engaged in the business of providing manpower 
services to the Company. During the year under review, 
	
VF is a Section 8 Company as per the Companies Act 
2013. Pursuant to the enactment of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and Section 135 of the Companies Act, 
2013, VF is an implementing agency and carries out 
Corporate Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) activities for 
the Company, its Subsidiaries, Associate and Joint 
Venture, promoter group companies in line with the 
Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013. VF primarily 
focuses on CSR activities that includes promoting 
30


--- Page 38 ---
Corporate
Governance Report
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
Financial
Statements
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
and development of (a) education, (b) financial 
literacy, (c) empowerment of women, (d) healthcare, 
(e) environment, (f) eradication of poverty, (g) improving 
socio-economic condition of farmers.
9.	
Vodafone Idea Next-Gen Solutions Limited
(VINGSL) [formerly known as Vodafone m-pesa
Limited (VMPL)]	
(50% each) shareholding. Firefly was engaged in the 
business of site acquisition, installation, commissioning, 
operations and maintenance of Infrastructures at the 
Hotspots to enable telecommunication and internet 
service providers to offer customers Wi-Fi access 
across the territory. In January 2025, a Share Purchase 
Agreement was entered with iBus Network and 
Infrastructure Private Limited for sale of its entire (50%) 
stake in FireFly for a consideration of ` 45 Mn. Post 
completion of conditions precedent, the shares were 
transferred on February 4, 2025 and accordingly, Firefly 
has ceased to be a Joint Venture of your Company.	
Associate Company	
Sangli Wind Energy Private Limited	
VMPL was in the business of Prepaid Payment
Instruments (PPI) and Business Correspondence and
provided customers with a mobile wallet and money
transfer services in the form of m-pesa. VMPL had
ceased all operations and surrendered its PPI Licence
issued by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) under the
Payment and Settlement System Act, 2007 with
effect from 30th September, 2019 as per the guidance
and approval of RBI - Department of Payment and
Settlement System (DPSS) and also terminated its
Business Correspondence Agreement with ICICI Bank
with effect from 31st July 2019.	
Post the end of Financial Year, your Company acquired 
26% stake in Sangli Wind Energy Pvt. Ltd. (SWEPL) 
for a consideration of ` 3.12 Mn, a Special Purpose 
Vehicle formed for the purpose of owning and operating 
a Captive Power Plant at an MSC location in Pune. 
SWEPL allotted the equity shares on May 16, 2025.	
Aditya Birla Idea Payments Bank Limited (ABIPBL)	
Post completion of the 3 year period ended September
30, 2022, the Company had written to the RBI for
next steps relating to compliances. In response to
this, the RBI has advised to continue maintaining
the unextinguished liability towards PPI holders
and merchant in the escrow account till further
communication from their end.	
ABIPBL, an associate of the Company had decided to 
wind up business voluntarily on July 19, 2019, due to 
unanticipated developments in the business landscape 
of payments banks that have made the economic 
model unviable. ABIPBL had filed for voluntary winding 
up before the Bombay High Court and the Hon’ble 
High Court vide its Order dated September 18, 2019, 
approved voluntary winding up of ABIPBL. With effect 
from January 27, 2025, ABIPBL has been liquidated.
In accordance with the provisions contained in Section 
136(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 (Act), the Annual 
Report of the Company, containing therein its standalone 
and the consolidated financial statements are available on 
the Company’s website https://www.myvi.in/investors/ 
annual-reports.
Subsequently in October 2024, the Company applied
and received approval from RBI for change of name as
also for commencing new business. Thereafter, VMPL
changed its name to Vodafone Idea Next-Gen Solutions
Limited (VINGSL) as well as altered the main objects
and commenced the business of providing Value
Added Services such as “Rich Business Messaging”
also known as “Rich Communication Services” and is
exploring other areas for carrying on related business.
During the year under review, the total income stood
at ` 564 Mn as compared to ` 15 Mn in the previous
year.	
Joint Venture Company	
Firefly Networks Limited (ceased during the year)	
Firefly Networks Limited (‘FireFly’) was a Joint Venture
with Bharti Airtel Limited with each partner having equal
Further, pursuant to the said requirement, the financial 
statements of each of the aforesaid subsidiary 
companies are available on the Company’s website 
https://www. myvi.in/investors/annual-reports and shall be 
available for inspection during business hours at the Registered 
Office of the Company. Any member who is interested in 
31
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 39 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
obtaining a copy of the financial statements may write to the 
Company Secretary at the Registered Office of the Company.
In terms of provisions contained in Section 129(3) of the 
Act, read with Rule 5 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 
2014, a report on the performance and financial position 
of each of the Subsidiaries and Joint Venture companies 
in Form AOC-1 is provided as ‘Annexure A’ to this report.
EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION SCHEMES
ensuring orderly and efficient conduct of its business, 
including adherence to the Company’s policies, safeguarding 
of its assets, prevention and detection of frauds and errors, 
accuracy and completeness of accounting records and timely 
preparation of reliable financial information. Based on the 
framework of internal financial controls and compliance 
systems established and maintained by the Company, the 
work performed by the internal auditors and the reviews 
performed by management and the Audit Committee, the 
Board is of the opinion that the Company’s internal financial 
controls were adequate and effective during the Financial 
Year 2024-25.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In terms of the provisions of applicable laws and pursuant 
to the approval of the Board and the members of your 
Company, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
had implemented the Employee Stock Option Scheme, 
2006 (ESOS-2006) and Employee Stock Option Scheme, 
2013 (ESOS-2013). No Stock Options are outstanding 
to be exercised under ESOS-2006. During the year under 
review your Company allotted 122,064 Equity Shares under 
ESOS-2013.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 129(3) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 34 of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, 
the Consolidated Financial Statements forms part of this 
Annual Report and shall also be laid before the shareholders 
in the ensuing Annual General Meeting of the Company. The 
Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in 
accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) 
notified under section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read 
with Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014.
RISK MANAGEMENT
Further, during the year under review, your Company 
adopted a new ‘Vodafone Idea Employee Stock Option and 
Performance Stock Unit Scheme 2024’ which has been 
approved by the members by Postal Ballot on October 
10, 2024. The said Scheme is in the process of being 
implemented. Further, details of plans also form part of 
Notes to Financial Statements.
In terms of the provisions of the SEBI (Share Based Employee 
Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 (“SEBI SBEB 
Regulations”), the details of the Stock Options and Restricted 
Stock Units granted under the above mentioned Schemes 
are available on your Company’s website https://www.myvi.
in/investors/annual-reports.
A certificate from M/s. Umesh Ved & Associates, Company 
Secretaries, Secretarial Auditors, certifying that the Company’s 
ESOS Schemes are being implemented in accordance 
with the SEBI SBEB Regulations will be made available at 
 
In compliance with the requirements of Regulations 
contained in the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and the Provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013, your Company has constituted 
a sub-committee of Directors known as Risk Management 
Committee, details whereof are set out in the Corporate 
Governance Report forming part of the Annual Report to 
oversee Enterprise Risk Management Framework. The role 
of the Risk Management Committee is inter-alia to approve 
the strategic risk management framework of the Company, 
and review the risk mitigation strategies and results of risk 
identification, prioritization & mitigation plans.
the ensuing Annual General Meeting for inspection by 
Members.
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROL SYSTEMS AND ITS 
ADEQUACY
Your Company has in place adequate internal control systems 
commensurate with the size of its operations. The Company 
has in place adequate controls, procedures and policies, 
Your Company has a well-established Enterprise-wide Risk 
Management (ERM) framework in place for identification, 
evaluation and management of risks, including the risks 
which may threaten the existence of the Company. In line 
with your Company’s commitment to deliver sustainable 
value, this framework aims to provide an integrated and 
organized approach for evaluating and managing risks.
32


--- Page 40 ---
Corporate
Governance Report
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
Financial
Statements
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
A detailed exercise is carried out to identify, evaluate, 
manage and monitor the risks. As required the Committee/ 
Board meets to review the risks and steps to be taken to 
control and mitigate the same.
HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
well-being, alongside POSH awareness via targeted micro-
learning. Workplace flexibility is enhanced through relaxed 
shift timings for maternity returnees, and infrastructure 
improvements include audited washroom facilities for 
women in field roles. Holistic well-being programs such 
as yoga, nutrition, and self-defense complement ongoing 
engagement through regular pulse surveys and focused 
group discussions, all contributing to a more inclusive 
culture. Recognized among the Top 100 Best Companies 
for Women in India by a study conducted by Avtar and 
Seramount and for excellence in maternity retention, VIL’s 
sustained focus on inclusion strengthens both its people 
and performance.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Your company’s people architecture is grounded in a strong 
consumer-centric philosophy, with technology serving as 
its foundational pillar. The organization has cultivated high 
change agility, embedded trust at the core of its people 
strategy, and embraced digital as the primary approach 
for solution development. Vi’s recognition as a Great Place 
to Work (GPTW) in Financial Year 2024-25 stands as a 
testament to its people-first culture and commitment to 
creating an empowering work environment.
Health & Safety
Your Company is committed to maintain the highest 
standards of Corporate Governance. Your Company 
continues to be compliant with the requirements of 
Corporate Governance as enshrined in SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(‘Listing Regulations’). A Report on Corporate Governance as 
stipulated under the Listing Regulations forms part of the 
Annual Report. A certificate from the Statutory Auditors of 
the Company, confirming compliance with the conditions 
of Corporate Governance, as stipulated in the Listing 
Regulations forms part of the Annual Report.
At Vodafone Idea Limited, Health, Safety and Wellbeing 
(HSW) are integral to the core values and a significant 
priority. We maintain a strong commitment to the principle 
of “not conducting business at the risk of people,” with an 
unwavering dedication to ensure that “everyone working for 
us returns home safely each day”. The ongoing efforts and 
focus on the Absolute Safety Rules and HSW standards, 
supported by a robust governance framework, have been 
instrumental in establishing industry-leading safety 
standards. We are pleased to report that until February
 
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT
15, 2025, we achieved three back to back years of zero 
work-related fatality. While we regrettably experienced a 
few incidents after the said date, we are fully committed to 
preventing any recurrence by thoroughly learning from these 
events and implementing more resilient safety measures in 
the operational practices.
Diversity and Inclusion
Your Company remains committed to Diversity and Inclusion 
(D&I) as a vital driver of innovation and organizational 
strength. In FY25, VIL achieved 19.1% women representation 
across business functions and saw improved employee 
experience, evidenced by a higher Employee Net Promoter 
Score. Key initiatives include 50% women representation in 
campus hiring, career acceleration programs, and inclusive 
leadership training.
Your Company provides comprehensive support through 
 
Vi Assist services for childcare, eldercare, and emotional 
Pursuant to Regulation 34(2)(f) of the Listing Regulations, 
the Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report 
(‘BRSR’) forms part of this Annual Report. The BRSR Report 
describes initiatives undertaken by the Company from an 
environmental, social and governance perspective. Further, 
SEBI vide its circular no. SEBI/HO/ CFD/CFD SEC 2/P/ 
CIR/2023/122 dated July 12, 2023 updated the format of 
BRSR to incorporate BRSR core, a subset of BRSR, indicating 
specific Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) under nine ESG 
attributes, and further came up with Industry Standards on 
Reporting of BRSR Core vide its Circular No.: SEBI/HO/CFD/
CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2024/177 dated December 20, 2024. 
The SEBI by amending the Listing Regulations has given levy 
from mandatory assurance requirement on the BRSR Core 
by substituting it with assessment. However, following good 
corporate governance practices, the Company has appointed 
33
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 41 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
Emergent Ventures India Pvt. Ltd. as the assurance provider 
for BRSR core. The assurance statement on BRSR Core 
issued by Emergent Ventures India Pvt. Ltd., forms part of 
this Annual Report.
that are reasonable and prudent, so as to give a true 
and fair view of the state of affairs of your Company 
as at the end of the Financial Year and of the financial 
performance and cash flows of the Company for that 
period;
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
c)	
proper and sufficient care has been taken for the 
maintenance of adequate accounting records 
in accordance with the provisions of the Act for 
safeguarding the assets of your Company and 
 
for preventing and detecting fraud and other 
 
irregularities;
In terms of the provisions of section 135 of the Companies 
Act, read with Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility 
Policy) Rules, 2014, the Board of Directors of your Company 
has constituted a Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) 
Committee. The composition of the CSR Committee is 
provided in the Corporate Governance Report which forms 
part of this report.
d)	
the annual accounts were prepared on a going concern 
basis;
e)	
your Company had laid down internal financial controls 
and that such internal financial controls were adequate 
and operating effectively; and
The Company has a policy on Corporate Social Responsibility 
(‘CSR’) recommended by the CSR Committee and approved 
by the Board and the same can be accessed on the 
Company’s website at https://www.myvi.in/investors/
corporate-governance.
f)	
your Company has devised a proper system to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws 
and that such systems were adequate and operating 
effectively.
In view of the losses incurred by the Company during the 
last three financial years, the Company has no obligation for 
CSR spend during the Financial Year 2024-25.
DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
During the year under review, pursuant to cessation of the 
terms, Mr. Arun Adhikari ceased to be an Independent Director 
on the Board of the Company w.e.f. 30 August 2024 and 
 
Further, for ensuring compliance of provisions of section 
135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the applicable Rules 
framed thereunder, the brief outline of the CSR Policy for 
the Company and a “NIL” Annual Report on CSR Activities is 
annexed as “Annexure B” which forms part of this report 
in the format prescribed in the Companies (Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy) Amendment Rules, 2021.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
Mr. Krishnan Ramachandran ceased to be an Independent 
Director w.e.f. 26 December 2024. Further, Mr. Sateesh 
Kamath (representing Vodafone Group) resigned from the 
Board of the Company w.e.f. close of business hours on 
30 October 2024. The Board places on record its sincere 
appreciation for the valuable guidance and contribution 
made by Mr. Arun Adhikari, Mr. Sateesh Kamath and 
Mr. Krishnan Ramachandran in the deliberations of the Board 
during their tenure as Director(s).
The Board based on the recommendation of the Nomination 
& Remuneration Committee appointed Mr. Rajat Kumar 
Jain as an Independent Director for a period of five years 
 
The Audited Financial Statements for the year under review 
are in conformity with the requirements of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and the applicable Accounting Standards. The 
financial statements reflect fairly the form and substance 
of transactions carried out during the year under review and 
reasonably present your Company’s financial condition and 
results of operations. Your Directors, to the best of their 
knowledge and belief, confirm that:
a)	
in the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable 
accounting standards have been followed along with 
proper explanations relating to material departures, if any;
b)	
the accounting policies selected have been applied 
consistently and judgements and estimates are made 
w.e.f. August 31, 2024 to August 30, 2029. His appointment 
was confirmed by the shareholders at the previous Annual 
General meeting held on August 28, 2024. Further, based 
on the recommendation of the Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee, the Board appointed Mr. Selcuk Karacay as an 
Additional Director (Non-Executive and Non-Independent), 
34


--- Page 42 ---
Corporate
Governance Report
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
Financial
Statements
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
BOARD EVALUATION AND FAMILIARIZATION 
PROGRAMME
representing Vodafone Group effective October 30, 2024 
and Mr. Sunirmal Talukdar as an Independent Director 
w.e.f. December 27, 2024 to December 5, 2026. Their 
appointments were confirmed at the Extra-ordinary General 
Meeting held on January 7, 2025.
Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 
and Listing Regulations, a formal evaluation mechanism 
is in place for evaluating the performance of the Board, 
the Committees thereof, individual Directors, Chairman of 
the Board and Independent Directors. The evaluation of 
Directors was done based on the criteria which includes, 
amongst others, providing strategic perspective, attendance 
and preparedness for the meetings, contribution at 
meetings, effective decision-making ability and independent 
judgement etc.
Further, during the year under review, pursuant to the 
resolution passed at the Annual General Meeting held on 
August 28, 2024, the second term of three years for the 
Independent Directors i.e. Mr. Ashwani Windlass, Ms. Neena 
Gupta and Mr. Suresh Vaswani was extended to five years 
and accordingly, their terms shall cease on August 30, 2026, 
September 16, 2026 and February 7, 2027 respectively.
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013, Mr. Kumar Mangalam Birla and Mr. Himanshu Kapania 
are liable to retire from office by rotation, and being eligible, 
have offered themselves for re-appointment at the ensuing 
Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The Board has carried out an annual evaluation of its own 
performance, its Committees, Independent Directors, 
Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board. The 
Directors expressed their satisfaction with the evaluation 
process and the performance of the Board as a whole. It 
was also noted that the Committees are functioning well and 
besides the Committee’s terms of reference as mandated 
by law, important issues are brought up and discussed in 
the Committees. The Board was also satisfied with the 
contribution of the Directors, in their respective capacities, 
which reflected the overall engagement of the Individual 
Directors.
All Independent Directors have submitted their declaration 
of independence, pursuant to the provisions of Section 
149(7) of the Companies Act and Regulation 25(8) of the 
Listing Regulations, stating that they meet the criteria of 
independence as provided in Section 149(6) of the Act 
and Regulation 16(1) (b) of the Listing Regulations. The 
Board is of the opinion that the Independent Directors of 
the Company possess requisite qualifications, experience, 
expertise and hold highest standards of integrity.
The details of programme for familiarization of Independent 
Directors of your Company is available on your Company’s 
website https://www.myvi.in/investors/corporate-
goverance.
REMUNERATION POLICY
All Independent Directors of your Company have registered 
their name in the data bank maintained with the Indian 
Institute of Corporate Affairs, in terms of the provisions of 
the Companies (Appointment and Qualification of Directors) 
Rules, 2014.
A brief profile of the Directors proposed to be appointed/ 
re-appointed are annexed to the Notice convening Annual 
General Meeting forming part of this Annual Report.
The Company has a Remuneration Policy in place 
encompassing the appointment and remuneration 
philosophy of the Company. The Policy comprises of various 
elements and terms of appointment. The Policy consists 
of various aspects in connection to Remuneration Program 
applicable for Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and Senior 
Management of the Company, Performance Goal Setting, 
Benefit & Perquisites, Compliance and other such elements.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 203 of the Companies 
Act, 2013, the Key Managerial Personnel of the Company 
are Mr. Akshaya Moondra, Chief Executive Officer, 
Mr. Murthy GVAS, Chief Financial Officer and Mr. Pankaj 
Kapdeo, Company Secretary. There has been no change 
in the positions of the Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company during the year under review.
The policy was formulated by the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee in terms of Section 178(3) of the 
Companies Act, 2013. A copy of the said policy is available 
on the website of the Company https://www.myvi. in/
investors/corporate-governance.
35
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 43 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION POLICY
CONTRACT AND ARRANGEMENTS WITH RELATED 
PARTIES
The Board has in compliance with SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, formulated 
Dividend Distribution Policy. This policy will provide clarity 
to the stakeholders on the dividend distribution framework 
of the Company. The Policy sets out various internal and 
All contracts/arrangements/transactions entered by the 
Company during the Financial Year with the related parties 
are detailed in the Note 58 of the Standalone Financial 
Statements. They were in ordinary course of business and 
on arm’s length basis.
external factors which shall be considered by the Board in 
determining the dividend payout. The Dividend Distribution 
Policy is available on the website of the Company 
https://www.myvi. in/investors/corporate-governance.
BOARD MEETINGS
The material related party transaction i.e. the arrangement 
with Indus Towers Limited (Indus), which provided Passive 
Infrastructure Services and related operations and 
maintenance services to various telecom operators in 
India, including your Company ceased in November 2024. 
Accordingly, Indus has ceased to be a related party and a 
Joint Venture of the Promoter Group.
During the year, thirteen meetings of the Board of Directors 
were held. The details of the meetings and the attendance 
of the Directors are provided in the Corporate Governance 
Report. Further, the maximum interval between two 
The details of such material related party transaction with 
Indus for the part of the year under review for the Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2025 is provided in Form AOC-2, which 
is attached as ‘Annexure C’ to this report.
meetings of the Board of the Directors has not exceeded 
120 days.
BOARD COMMITTEES
Your Company has in place the Committee(s) as mandated 
under the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015. There are currently seven committees 
of the Board, namely:
None of the related party transactions entered into by the 
Company were in conflict with the Company’s interest. 
There are no materially significant related party transactions 
made by the Company with Promoters, Directors or Key 
Managerial Personnel etc. which may have potential conflict 
of interest of the Company at large. Member’s approval for 
Material Related Party Transaction, if any, as defined under 
the Listing Regulations shall be obtained at the ensuing 
Annual General Meeting.
1.	
Audit Committee
2.	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee
3.	
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
4.	
Risk Management Committee
5.	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
6.	
Capital Raising Committee
All Related Party Transactions are placed before the 
Audit Committee/Board, as applicable, for their approval. 
Omnibus approvals are taken for the transactions which 
are repetitive in nature. The Company has implemented a 
Related Party Transaction Manual and Standard Operating 
Procedures for the purpose of identification and monitoring 
of such transactions. The details of the transactions with 
Related Parties are provided in the accompanying financial 
statements as required under Ind AS 24.
7.	
Finance Committee
Additionally, other special committee had also been 
The policy on Related Party Transactions is uploaded on 
the Company’s website https://www.myvi.in/investors/ 
corporate-governance.
constituted for Further Public Offer.
Details of the Committees along with their charter, 
PARTICULARS OF LOANS, GUARANTEES AND 
INVESTMENTS
composition and meetings held during the year, are provided 
in the Corporate Governance Report, which forms part of 
this report.
As your Company is engaged in the business of providing 
infrastructural facilities, the provisions of Section 186 of the 
36


--- Page 44 ---
Corporate
Governance Report
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
Financial
Statements
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
employees. Any Member, who is interested in obtaining these 
particulars about employees, may write to the Company 
Secretary at shs@vodafoneidea.com.
AUDITORS AND AUDIT REPORTS
Companies Act, 2013 relating to loans made, guarantees 
given or securities provided are not applicable to the 
Company. The details of such loans made and guarantees 
given are provided in the standalone financial statements. 
Also, particulars of investments made by the Company are 
provided in the notes to standalone financial statements.
Statutory Auditors
VIGIL MECHANISM – SPEAK UP POLICY
Your Company has in place a vigil mechanism for Directors 
and employees to report concerns about unethical behaviour, 
actual or suspected fraud or violation of your Company’s 
Code of Conduct. Adequate safeguards are provided against 
victimization to those who avail of the mechanism and 
direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee in 
exceptional cases.
The members of the Company pursuant to the 
recommendation of the Audit Committee and the Board 
of Directors; had at the 27th Annual General Meeting 
held on August 29, 2022, appointed M/s. S.R. Batliboi & 
Associates LLP, Chartered Accountants, Firm Registration 
No. 101049W/E300004, as the Statutory Auditors of the 
Company for another period of five years till the conclusion 
of 32nd Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held 
in the Calendar Year 2027.
Auditors’ Report and Notes to Financial Statements
The Vigil Mechanism – Speak Up policy is available on 
your Company’s website https://www.myvi.in/investors/
corporate-governance.
The Board has duly reviewed the Statutory Auditors’ Report 
on the Financial Statements at March 31, 2025. The report 
does not contain any qualification, disclaimer or adverse 
remarks.
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY 
ABSORPTION AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS 
AND OUTGO
The information on conservation of energy, technology 
absorption and foreign exchange earnings and outgo as 
required to be disclosed pursuant to Section 134(3)(m) of 
the Companies Act, 2013, read with Rule 8 of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014, are given to the extent applicable 
in ‘Annexure D’ forming part of this report.
PARTICULARS OF EMPLOYEES
The Board has duly reviewed the Statutory Auditors’ Report 
on the Financial Statements including the Para of Material 
Uncertainty Related to Going Concern relating to the 
Company’s financial condition as at March 31, 2025 and 
its debt obligation due for the next 12 months, which has 
impacted the Company’s ability to generate the cash flow 
that it needs to settle/refinance its liabilities as they fall 
due. The Company’s ability to continue as a going concern 
is dependent on support from DoT on the AGR matter, 
successfully arranging funding and generation of cash flow 
from its operations that it needs to settle its liabilities as 
they fall due.
Disclosures pertaining to remuneration and other details 
as required under Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 
2013, read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 is 
annexed herewith as ‘Annexure E’ to this Report.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 197(12) 
of the Act read with the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, 
the names and other particulars of employees drawing 
remuneration in excess of the limits set out in the aforesaid 
Rules, forms part of this Report. However, in line with the 
provisions of Section 136(1) of the Act, the Report and 
Accounts as set out therein, are being sent to all Members of 
your Company excluding the aforesaid information about the 
Note 5 to the financial statements cover the Material 
Uncertainty Related to Going Concern issue and the 
comments under para xix of Annexure 1 to the Independent 
Auditors’ Report, the clarification of which is self-explanatory. 
The Board believes that the Company’s ability to settle the 
liabilities is dependent on further support from the DoT 
on the AGR matter, fund raise through Equity & Debt and 
generation of cashflow from operations. Based on the current 
efforts, the Company believes that it would be able to get 
DoT support, successfully arrange funding and generate 
cashflow from operations. Hence, these financial statements 
have been prepared on a going concern basis.
37
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 45 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
In accordance with the provisions of Section 148 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Audit and 
Auditors) Rules, 2014, since the remuneration payable to 
the Cost Auditors has to be ratified by the shareholders, the 
Board recommends the same for approval by shareholders 
at the ensuing Annual General Meeting.
Secretarial Auditor
As regards the comments under para i(a)(A) of Annexure 1 
to the Independent Auditors’ Report regarding certain assets 
where Company is in the process of updating situation and 
quantitative information in the records maintained by the 
Company. It is to be noted that the Company had undertaken 
a large-scale network integration activity in earlier years and 
post completion of this activity, the Company has completed 
updating its records as regards situation and quantitative 
details of location for majority of assets and for the balance, 
the Company is in the process of updating the same.
In terms of the provision of the Section 204 of the Act 
read with Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, the Board had appointed 
M/s. Umesh Ved & Associates, Company Secretaries, 
Ahmedabad, as the Secretarial Auditor for conducting the 
Secretarial Audit of your Company for the Financial Year 
ended March 31, 2025. The report of the Secretarial Auditor 
is annexed to this report as ‘Annexure F’. The contents of 
the Secretarial Audit Report are self-explanatory and do not 
contain any qualification, reservation, disclaimer or adverse 
remark.
Further, with regard to the comment under para ix(d) of 
Annexure 1 to the Independent Auditors’ Report regarding 
utilisation of funds raised on short term basis (in form of 
trade payable and other liability) for long term purposes 
(representing acquisition of property, plant and equipment 
and to fund losses of the Company), it is reported that the 
funds have been utilised in line with the purpose for which 
they were raised.
Cost Audit and Cost Auditors
The Company is required to make and maintain cost records 
pursuant to Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013.
Further, in terms of Regulation 24A of Listing Regulations, 
every listed company has been mandated to appoint 
Secretarial Auditor for a fixed term of five years, with the 
approval of the members in the Annual General Meeting. 
Accordingly, the Board of Directors at their meeting held 
on May 30, 2025 have approved and recommended the 
appointment of M/s. Umesh Ved & Associates, Company 
Secretaries as Secretarial Auditors of the Company for 
a term of five consecutive years commencing from the 
Financial Year 2025-26 till the Financial Year 2029-30, 
subject to the approval of the members at the ensuing 
Annual General Meeting.
In terms of the provisions of Section 148 of the Companies 
Act, 2013, read with the Companies (Cost Records and 
Audit) Amendment Rules, 2014, the Board of Directors 
of your Company on the recommendation of the Audit 
Committee appointed M/s. Sanjay Gupta & Associates, Cost 
Accountants, as the Cost Auditors, to conduct the Cost Audit 
of your Company for the Financial Year ended March 31, 
2025. The Cost Auditors will submit their report for Financial 
Year 2024-25 within the timeframe prescribed under the 
Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder. The Cost 
Audit report for the Financial Year 2023-24 did not contain 
any qualification, reservation, disclaimer or adverse remark.
The Board, on the recommendation of Audit Committee, 
has re-appointed M/s. Sanjay Gupta & Associates, 
Cost Accountants, as Cost Auditors of the Company for 
Financial Year 2025-26 at a remuneration of ` 1.2 Mn plus 
applicable taxes and reimbursement of travel and out of 
pocket expenses. The Company has received consent from 
M/s. Sanjay Gupta & Associates, Cost Accountants, to act as 
the Cost Auditor of your Company for Financial Year 2025-26, 
along with the certificate confirming their eligibility.
Also, in terms of Regulation 24A of the Listing Regulations, 
material unlisted subsidiaries of a listed entity incorporated 
in India is required to annex a Secretarial Audit Report issued 
by a Company Secretary in practice. As the networth of the 
Company was negative, the Subsidiaries having positive 
networth namely Vodafone Idea Communication Systems 
Limited, Vodafone Idea Shared Services Limited and 
Vodafone Idea Manpower Services Limited, were material 
subsidiaries of the Company. However, pursuant to an 
amendments made in the Policy for Determining Material 
Subsidiary, the aforesaid subsidiaries ceased to be material 
subsidiaries during the year under review. As a matter of 
good corporate governance, material unlisted subsidiaries 
(considered for part of the year) have undertaken Secretarial 
38


--- Page 46 ---
Corporate
Governance Report
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
Financial
Statements
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Audit and the Secretarial Audit Report(s) are attached as 
‘Annexure F-1 to F-3’ to the Annual Report.
SECRETARIAL STANDARDS
The Company has generally complied with all the applicable 
provisions of Secretarial Standard on Meetings of Board 
of Directors (SS-1) and Secretarial Standard on General 
Meetings (SS-2), respectively issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India.
with more than 900 Mn internet subscribers and an array 
of digital services for consumers and businesses. With the 
increasing reach and convenience of mobile networks, there 
are multiple emerging platforms offering services to deliver 
a host of services ranging from digital lifestyle to life-saving 
services, including e-commerce, digital entertainment, 
digital health and disaster response. Also, as the penetration 
improves and adoption of mobile services expands to the 
oldest and youngest age groups, the growth potential still 
remains higher.
REPORTING OF FRAUDS BY AUDITORS
Despite the recent tariff hikes, India continues to have the 
lowest tariffs globally. while the proliferation of unlimited 
data bundles has led to India being one of the highest data 
usages (per subscriber) in the world. While the tariff hike 
was a step in the right direction, ARPU recovery still has a 
long way to go as the industry’s ROCE continues to remain 
below cost of capital.
During the year under review, the Statutory Auditors, Cost 
Auditors and the Secretarial Auditor have not reported to the 
Audit Committee, any instances of fraud committed against 
the Company by its officers and employees, the details of 
which would need to be mentioned in Board’s Report under 
Section 143(12) of the Act.
ANNUAL RETURN
As provided under Section 92(3) and 134(3)(a) of the Act, 
read with Rule 12 of Chapter VII Rules of the Companies 
(Management and Administration) Amendment Rules, 2020, 
Annual Return in Form MGT-7 for Financial Year 2024-25 
is uploaded on the website of the Company and can be 
accessed at https://www.myvi.in/investors/annual-reports.
OPPORTUNITIES, RISKS, CONCERNS AND THREATS
Your Company has several ongoing litigations and any 
adverse outcome of these litigations remains a risk. Your 
Company works with various local, state and central 
government agencies for specific permissions to operate its 
mobile licenses and is required to meet various regulatory/
policy guidelines of the DoT and may be subjected to various 
regulatory demands, penalties/fines or increased cost of 
compliance, despite making best effort to adhere to all such 
requirements. Your Company believes in sound corporate 
governance practices and believes that these litigations 
would be settled in due course in the best interest of all 
stakeholders.
The telecom sector is characterized by technological 
changes and competition from new technologies is an 
inherent threat. Your Company has a competitive spectrum 
portfolio and robust network footprint and continues to 
invest in the new emerging network solutions to adapt 
to any future technological changes. Your Company has 
launched 5G services in a few cities and expansion efforts 
are underway to offer 5G services in all 17 circles where we 
have 5G spectrum by August 2025.
The mobile telecommunications industry is an integral part 
of the Indian economy and has contributed significantly to 
the economic growth and the GDP of the country over a 
period of time. The Indian mobile industry has consolidated 
to three private operators and one government operator. 
The compelling macro-economic backdrop, growth in 
smartphone usage, growing digital adoption and a large 
population add to the sector growth. This industry structure 
coupled with supportive economic trends and government 
focus on Digital India, offers an opportunity to each of 
the players, to participate in the long-term sector growth 
opportunities.
Wireless connectivity in India still has a large potential to 
grow as it is the key medium to offer connectivity as wired 
connectivity, despite witnessing growth in the last few years, 
has still been restricted to major cities. India is one of the 
largest and fastest-growing digital economies in the world, 
Your Company’s business is dependent on key Network and 
IT equipment suppliers for management and continuity of 
its Network, IT and business processes. These networks 
may also be vulnerable to technical failures or any natural 
calamity. Your Company has robust network & IT security 
processes and disaster recovery plans. Your Company is in 
39
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 47 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
partnership with global leaders in Network equipment and 
IT services and enjoys very long standing healthy relations 
with all its suppliers.
Your Company believes that with the recent equity infusion 
as described in the report and its ability to raise additional 
funds as required, it shall be able to successfully negotiate 
with lenders on continued support, generate cash flow from 
operations that it needs to settle its liabilities as they fall due 
and continue to have the necessary government support.
OUTLOOK
During FY25, your Company has raised equity of ~` 614 Bn, 
including FPO of ` 180 Bn, Preferential Issue of ~` 40 Bn to 
promoters (Aditya Birla Group ~` 21 Bn and Vodafone Group 
~` 19 Bn), ~` 25 Bn to vendors (Nokia and Ericsson) and 
~` 369 Bn to the Government of India. Your Company 
remains engaged with lenders for debt fund raising. Your 
Company is well positioned to effectively compete in 
the market with the recent capex investments coupled 
with the support provided by the Government, a strong 
subscriber base of 198.2 Mn (March 31, 2025), 83% 4G 
population coverage, competitive spectrum profile, extensive 
distribution reach and a well-established brand along with 
differentiated digital offerings.
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY
The Telecom sector provides connectivity to individuals 
& communities that fosters empowerment and inclusion. 
The near ubiquitous reach of the mobile makes it the most 
relevant channel for last mile outreach. The mobile phone 
has become the fastest window to a world of information, 
better education, livelihood, employment, health, inputs on 
agricultural practices and governance.
Your Company is conscious of the fact that in order to remain 
competitive in the sector there is a need for continued 
investments and innovation as the sector continues to 
witness evolving technological developments and changing 
customer preferences. Its ability to adapt to the changing 
market preference has been instrumental in its survival 
thus far despite various challenges it faced. The Company 
remains committed to exploring new opportunities and will 
continue its journey of becoming a truly integrated digital 
service provider through its strategic initiatives including 
partnerships. It remains committed to make right investments 
for expanding 4G coverage and capacity especially in its 17 
priority circles as well as to expand 5G services in line with 
the growing customer demand. After the recent tariff hike, 
your Company will continue to focus on improving ARPU by 
driving the penetration of Unlimited Data (ULD) pricing plans 
as well as digitalization of customer servicing and distribution 
channels with an aim to provide the best of customer 
experience to retail and enterprise customers.
At VIL, sustainability is inbuilt in the process and is a part and 
parcel of operations. These are clearly enshrined in the Vision 
and Mission of the VIL. Vision - To create world class digital 
experiences to connect and inspire every Indian to build a 
better tomorrow. Mission: Customers - Be the most loved 
brand by continuously raising the bar in delivering simple, 
delightful, experience and meaningful innovations, through 
new age technologies. We value the trust our customers 
place in us and safeguard the information provided to us. 
Team - Be an inspirational, agile and exciting organization 
that challenges the status quo, and champions a diverse 
team that has a winning attitude and thrives on delivering 
customer excellence. Shareholders – Be the most valued 
Company through smart leadership committed to delivering 
sustainable growth, while adhering to the highest standards 
of governance and compliance. Community – Be the most 
respected Company by leveraging technology and purposeful 
innovation to catalyze social prosperity, digital literacy and 
inclusivity.
Your Company will remain focused on providing superior data 
and voice experience and building a differentiated digital 
experience with focus on increasing 4G subscribers. Your 
Company will strive to grow using innovative technologies and 
offerings that redefine businesses and from rising adoption 
of smart devices, digital lifestyle as well as expansion of 
digital connectivity. In Business Services, your Company 
will increasingly focus on new and fast growing segments 
such as Cloud services, Rich Business Messaging and IoT. 
To further drive the digital agenda, your Company will look 
for deeper integration opportunities with its partners using 
its platform capabilities to provide a differentiated telco++ 
experience and value for partners as well as customers.
Being a telecom company, VIL has been adopting various 
solutions/approaches to ensure that its networks are run in 
an energy efficient manner. Our primary focus has been on 
40


--- Page 48 ---
Corporate
Governance Report
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
Financial
Statements
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
the Financial Year 2024 - 2025, 6 complaints pertaining to 
sexual harassment were received and as on March 31, 2025 
all 6 have been resolved.
OTHER DISCLOSURES
-	
There are no material changes and commitments 
affecting the financial position of your Company 
between end of Financial Year and the date of 
report, other than those disclosed in the significant 
developments section of the Board’s Report.
-	
Your Company has not issued any shares with 
differential voting rights.
-	
There was no revision in the financial statements.
-	
Your Company has not issued any sweat equity shares.
-	
There was no application made or proceedings 
pending against the Company under the Insolvency 
and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 and there is no instance 
of one-time settlement with any Bank or Financial 
Institution.
reducing energy cost and minimizing environmental impact 
through adoption of renewable energy in the Company’s 
operations. We prioritize adaptability, agility and foresight 
to ensure that our business models, operations, acquisitions 
and projects are not locked into unsustainable paths. Our 
sustainability journey gets complimented with our corporate 
responsibility agenda driven by the Vodafone Foundation 
which is directed towards addressing some of India’s 
critical social and developmental challenges in both rural 
and urban communities using the inherent potential and 
reach of the mobile technology and platform and reducing 
the environmental impact with increasing preference and 
usage of digital. We are fully committed towards creating 
value for all stakeholders from customers to partners, to 
employees, to communities and to the larger planet. We 
achieve this through our passion for customer satisfaction, 
supporting our partners as they build capacity, engaging with 
and valuing our employees in an inclusive agenda to instill 
pride in the work we do and develop sustainable business 
practices. This is being done with our responsible support 
towards digital inclusion as a national goal and in continuing 
with our practices of community development in areas like 
education & skilling, women empowerment and agriculture.
-	
There are no significant and material orders passed by 
the Regulators or Courts or Tribunals impacting the 
going concern status and the Company’s operations, 
other than the Order passed by the Hon’ble Supreme 
Court on the AGR matter in October, 2019, which has 
been disclosed in the significant developments section 
of the Board’s report.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
We also firmly believe that sustainable development 
cannot be achieved with mere focus within our own 
boundary of business practices. The Company has forged 
meaningful and impactful partnerships with its vendors 
and partners to address the needs and challenges related 
to sustainability. We will continue to be future-ready by 
staying ahead of the curve and being charged up to thrive in 
a sustainable tomorrow by building sustainable businesses 
and propositions. The Company has a robust Sustainability 
Framework of Policies, Technical Standards etc. which help 
in the Sustainability journey of the Company.
DISCLOSURE UNDER SEXUAL HARASSMENT 
OF WOMEN AT WORKPLACE (PREVENTION, 
PROHIBITION AND REDRESSAL) ACT, 2013
The Company has in place an Anti-Sexual Harassment Policy 
in line with the requirements of the Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013. The Internal Committee have been set up in 
business units to redress complaints received regarding 
sexual harassment. All employees (permanent, contractual, 
temporary, trainees) are covered under this policy. During 
Statements in the Directors’ Report and the Management 
Discussion and Analysis describing your Company’s 
objectives, projections, estimates, expectations, or 
predictions may include certain ‘forward-looking statements’ 
within the meaning of applicable Securities Laws and 
Regulations. Such forward looking statements are made 
on the basis of certain assumptions which we believe are 
reasonable in all material respects. Actual results could differ 
materially from those expressed or implied assumptions. 
Some of the important factors that could make a difference 
to your Company’s operations or financials include factors like 
availability and prices of telecom equipment, concentration 
of supply side, technological shift impacting consumer 
behavior, changes in government regulations or policies, 
41
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 49 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
extended to the Company. Your Directors also wish to place 
on record their deep appreciation to the employees for their 
hard work, dedication and commitment.
tax regimes etc. Your Company is not obliged to publicly 
amend, modify, or revise any forward-looking statements 
on the basis of any subsequent development, information, 
or events, or otherwise.
For and on behalf of the Board
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
Himanshu Kapania
Sunil Sood 
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
(DIN : 03387441)
(DIN : 03132202)
Place : Mumbai
Date : May 30, 2025
Your Directors place on record their sincere appreciation to 
the Department of Telecommunications, Telecom Regulatory 
Authority of India, the Central Government, the State 
Governments, all its investors & stakeholders, equipment 
suppliers, technology providers and other vendors, bankers, 
value added service partners, all the business associates and 
above all, the subscribers for the co-operation and support 
42


--- Page 50 ---
Corporate
Business Responsibility
Financial
Directors’ Report &
Governance Report
and Sustainability Report
Statements
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
ANNEXURE ‘A’
` Mn
India Limited
You Broadband 
April 1, 2024 - 
March 31, 2025
Technology 
Vodafone Idea 
April 1, 2024 - 
March 31, 2025
Solutions Limited 
Limited
Vodafone 
Idea Telecom 
Infrastructure 
April 1, 2024 - 
March 31, 2025
Next-Gen 
(‘VINGSL’)
as Vodafone 
Vodafone Idea 
April 1, 2024 - 
(formerly known 
m-pesa Limited) 
March 31, 2025
Solutions Limited 
Limited
Vodafone Idea 
April 1, 2024 - 
Shared Services 
March 31, 2025
Vodafone 
Foundation
April 1, 2024 - 
March 31, 2025
Form AOC-I
Part “A”: Subsidiaries
Limited
Vodafone Idea 
April 1, 2024 - 
March 31, 2025
Business Services 
Vodafone Idea 
Communication 
April 1, 2024 - 
Systems Limited
March 31, 2025
 -   
 1,432 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 8 
 -   
 -   
 2 
 -   
 (2)
 -   
-*
Manpower 
Vodafone Idea 
Services Limited 
March 31, 2025
October 3, 2007
August 31, 2018
August 31, 2018
August 31, 2018
August 31, 2018
August 31, 2018
August 31, 2018
August 31, 2018
August 31, 2018
(Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014)
(Loss)
Particulars
Name of Subsidiary
acquired
in Subsidiary
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries/associate companies/joint ventures
16
% of Shareholding#
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
13
Other Comprehensive Income/
14
Total Comprehensive Income/(Loss)
 5 
 200 
 619 
 (2)
 5 
 546 
 1,236 
 (10)
 (590)
15
Proposed Dividend
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
10
Profit/(Loss) before Taxation
 5 
 111 
 839 
 (2)
 16 
 546 
 1,238 
 (4)
 (590)
11
Provision for Taxation
 -   
 (81)
 220 
 -   
 13 
 -   
 -   
 6 
 -   
12
Profit/(Loss) after Taxation
 5 
 192 
 619 
 (2)
 3 
 546 
 1,238 
 (10)
 (590)
Sr. 
No.
1
The date since when subsidiary was 
2
Reporting period
April 1, 2024 - 
3
Reporting currency
INR
INR
INR
INR
INR
INR
INR
INR
INR
4
Equity Share Capital
-*
 4,053 
-*
-*
 20 
 2,372 
 18 
 5 
 750 
5
Other Equity
 39 
 (1,431)
 245 
-*
 252 
 (2,698)
 (5,952)
 (103)
 (2,551)
6
Total Assets
 116 
 2,827 
 4,594 
 319 
 1,892 
 838 
 38,192 
 184 
 1,713 
7
Total Liabilities
 77 
 205 
 4,349 
 319 
 1,620 
 1,164 
 44,126 
 282 
 3,514 
8
Investments other than investments 
9
Turnover (Total Income)
 789 
 341 
 2,951 
 303 
 1,005 
 564 
 9,946 
 321 
 991 
Notes:
*Numbers  below one million under the rounding off convention adopted by the Company and accordingly not reported.
# Representing aggregate % of voting power held by the Company and / or its subsidiaries
43
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 51 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
Part “B”: Associate and Joint Venture
` Mn
Particulars
Associate
Joint Venture
Sr. 
No.
Aditya Birla 
Firefly Networks 
Idea Payments 
Limited (FNL)**
Bank Limited 
(ABIPBL)*
1
Last Audited Balance Sheet Date
March 31, 2019
March 31, 2024
2
Date on which the Associate or Joint Venture was associated or acquired
February 19, 2016
August 31, 2018
Number of Shares held by the Company as on March 31, 2025
 -   
 -   
Amount of Investment in Joint Venture / Associate
 -   
 -   
Extent of holding %
 -   
 -   
3
Description of how there is a significant influence
 -   
 -   
4
Reason why the Joint Venture is not consolidated
N.A.
N.A.
5
Net worth attributable to Shareholding as per latest audited Balance Sheet**
 -   
 -   
6
Profit / (Loss) for the year
i.	 Considered in Consolidation
 -   
 18 
ii.	 Not Considered in Consolidation
 -   
 -   
7
Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss) for the year
i.	 Considered in Consolidation
 -   
 -   
ii.	 Not Considered in Consolidation
 -   
 -   
8
Total Comprehensive Income / (Loss) for the year
i.	 Considered in Consolidation
 -   
 18 
ii.	 Not Considered in Consolidation
 -   
 -   
* With effect from January 27, 2025, ABIPBL has been liquidated.
** On February 4, 2025, the Company has sold entire holding in FNL.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Vodafone Idea Limited
As per our report of even date
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W/E300004
Sunil Sood
Non-Executive Director
(DIN : 03132202)
Himanshu Kapania
Non-Executive Director
(DIN : 03387441)
Akshaya Moondra
Chief Executive Officer
Murthy G.V.A.S.
Chief Financial Officer
Pankaj Kapdeo
Company Secretary
Amit Poddar
Partner
Membership No.:  509192
Place: Mumbai
Date : May 30, 2025
44


--- Page 52 ---
Corporate
Business Responsibility
Financial
Directors’ Report &
Governance Report
and Sustainability Report
Statements
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
ANNEXURE ‘B’ TO THE DIRECTORS’ REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT ON CSR ACTIVITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2024-25
1.	 Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company:
	
To actively contribute to the social and economic development of the communities by leveraging technology and purposeful 
innovation to catalyse social prosperity, digital literacy and inclusivity. The focus areas of intervention are - Education, 
Agriculture, Health, Livelihood and Women Empowerment. The CSR policy can be accessed on the Company’s website: 
https://www.myvi.in/investors/corporate-goverance.
2.	 Composition of CSR Committee:
	
In compliance with Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, the Company has in place a CSR Committee, which 
comprises mainly of Independent Directors. The following Directors served as members of the CSR Committee during 
the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025.
Sl. 
Name of Director
Designation/Nature of 
Number of meetings 
Number of meetings 
No.
Directorship
of CSR Committee 
of CSR Committee 
held during the year 
attended during the 
(during the tenure of 
year
Director)
1
Ms. Neena Gupta
Chairperson
(Independent Director)
1
0
2
*Mr. Arun Adhikari
Member 
(Independent Director)
1
1
3
*Mr. Krishnan Ramachandran
Member 
(Independent Director)
1
1
4
Mr. Ravinder Takkar
Member 
(Non-Executive Chairman) 
1
1
5
*Mr. Rajat Kumar Jain
Member 
(Independent Director)
0
0
6
*Mr. Sunirmal Talukdar
Member 
(Independent Director)
0
0
	
* Note: During the year under review, the composition of the Committee was changed twice. Pursuant to cessation of 
term of Mr. Arun Adhikari on 30 August 2024, Mr. Rajat Kumar Jain was appointed w.e.f. 31 August 2024 & pursuant 
to cessation of term of Mr. Krishnan Ramachandran effective 26 December 2024, Mr. Sunirmal Talukdar was appointed 
in his place effective 27 December 2024 as Members of the Committee.
3.	 Weblink to access the Composition of CSR Committee, CSR Policy and CSR Projects:
	
a.	
Composition of CSR Committee: https://www.myvi.in/investors/corporate-goverance 
	
b.	
CSR Policy: https://www.myvi.in/investors/corporate-goverance
	
c.	
For CSR Projects: The average net profits for the last three financial years was negative hence, no spent was made 
on CSR Projects during the Financial Year 2024-25. Accordingly, the Company was not required to approve and 
display any projects under Rule 9 of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility) Rules, 2014.  
45
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 53 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
4.	 Executive summary along with web-link(s) of Impact Assessment of CSR Projects carried out in pursuance 
of sub-rule (3) of rule 8
	
Not applicable.
5.	 Details of the amount available for set-off in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 7 of the Companies 
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 and the amount required for set-off for the Financial 
Year, if any
	
None
6.	 CSR Obligation for the Financial Year
	
(a)	 Average net profit of the Company as per section 135(5) –
	
	
Not Applicable, as the average net profits for the last three financial years is negative.
	
(b)	 Two percent of the average net profit of the Company as per section 135(5) –
	
	
Nil
	
(c)	 Surplus arising out of the CSR Projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years
	
	
Not Applicable
	
(d)	 The amount required to be set-off for the financial year, if any
	
	
Not Applicable
	
(e)	 Total CSR obligation for the financial year [(b)+(c)-(d)]
	
	
Nil
7.	 Amount Spent for the Financial Year
	
(a)	 Amount spent on CSR Projects:
	
	
-	
Ongoing projects – Not applicable
	
	
-	
Other than ongoing projects – Not applicable
	
(b)	 Amount spent on Administrative Overheads – Not applicable
	
(c)	 Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable – Not applicable
	
(d)	 Total amount spent for the Financial Year [(a)+(b)+(c)] – Not applicable
	
(e)	 CSR amount spent or unspent for the Financial Year:
Amount Unspent (in `)
Total Amount 
Spent for the 
Total Amount transferred to 
Financial Year 
Unspent CSR Account as per 
Amount transferred to any fund specified 
under Schedule VII as per second proviso 
(in ` Mn)
sub-section (6) of section 135 
to sub-section (5) of section 135 
Amount
Date of 
Name of the 
Amount
Date of 
transfer
Fund
transfer
Nil
Nil
NA
NA
Nil
NA
	
(f)	 Excess amount for set-off, if any: Not Applicable
46


--- Page 54 ---
Corporate
Business Responsibility
Financial
Directors’ Report &
Governance Report
and Sustainability Report
Statements
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Particulars 
Amount 
Sr. 
No. 
(in ` Mn) 
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per sub-section (5) of section 135
-
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
-
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the Financial Year [(ii)-(i)]
-
-
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous Financial 
Years, if any
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding Financial Years [(iii)-(iv)]
-
8.	 Details of Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility amount for the preceding three Financial Years:
	
Not Applicable 
Sl. 
Preceding 
Amount 
Balance Amount 
Amount 
Amount transferred 
Amount 
Deficiency, 
 
No.
Financial 
transferred to 
in Unspent CSR 
Spent in the 
to a Fund as 
remaining 
if any
Year(s) 
Unspent CSR 
Account under 
Financial 
specified under 
to be 
Account under 
sub-section (6) 
Year (in `)
Schedule VII as per 
spent in 
sub-section (6) 
of section 135   
succeeding 
of section 135  
(in `)
second proviso to 
sub-section (5) of 
Financial 
(in `)
section 135, if any 
Years 
(in `)
Amount
Date of 
(in `)
Transfer
1
2021-22
Nil
-
-
Nil
NA
Nil
-
2
2022-23
Nil
-
-
Nil
NA
Nil
-
3
2023-24
Nil
-
-
Nil
NA
Nil
-
9.	 Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount 
spent in the Financial Year: NO
	
If Yes, enter the number of Capital assets created/acquired: Not Applicable
	
Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent 
in the Financial Year: 
Sr. 
Short particulars 
PIN code 
Date of 
Details of entity / Authority / beneficiary of the 
No.
of the property or 
of the 
creation
Amount of 
CSR spent
registered owner
asset(s) [including 
property or 
complete address 
asset(s)
and location of the 
property] 
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
CSR 
Name 
Registered 
Registration 
address 
Number, if 
applicable 
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
47
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 55 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
10.	Specify the reason(s), if the Company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per 
sub-section (5) of section 135.
	
Not Applicable. The average net profits calculated for last three Financial Years is negative for the Financial Year 
 
2024-25.  
	
	
	
Neena Gupta	
Ravinder Takkar
	
Chairperson – CSR Committee &	
Non-Executive Chairman
	
Independent Director	
(DIN : 01719511)
	
(DIN : 00591057)
	
Place : Vienna	
Place : Maryland, USA
Date	 :	May 28, 2025
48


--- Page 56 ---
Corporate
Business Responsibility
Financial
Directors’ Report &
Governance Report
and Sustainability Report
Statements
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
ANNEXURE ‘C’
Form AOC-2
[Pursuant to clause (h) of sub-section (3) of section 134 of the Act and Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014]
Form for disclosure of particulars of contracts/arrangements entered into by the Company with related 
parties referred to in sub-section (1) of section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 including certain arm’s 
length transactions under third proviso thereto for Financial Year 2024-25:
1.	 Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm’s length basis: None
2.	 Details of material contracts or arrangements or transactions at arm’s length basis:
Sl. No.
Particulars
Information
(a)
Name(s) of the related party and nature of 
relationship
*Indus Towers Limited (Indus) 
(Upto November 18, 2024)
Entities having significant influence [includes Subsidiaries 
/ Joint Venture / Associates of the entity to which the 
Company is a Joint Venture] upto June 19, 2024.
Other Related Parties in which Directors are interested from 
June 20, 2024 to November 18, 2024.
Master Service Agreement (MSA) for Passive Infrastructure 
services and related Operations & Maintenance services.
(b)
Nature of contracts/ arrangements/ 
transactions
(c)
Duration of the contracts/ arrangements/ 
transactions
The maximum term of each tenancy service contract 
executed for each passive infrastructure site under the MSA 
is 7 to 10 years or more, with either party having a right to 
terminate, subject to certain conditions.
(d)
Salient terms of the contracts or arrangements 
or transactions including the value, if any
Passive Infrastructure services are provided by Indus 
mainly on co-sharing basis for each Passive Infrastructure 
site, after obtaining necessary approvals, which enables 
the Company to deploy active equipment on sites for 
providing telecom services. The aggregate value of the 
transaction for Financial Year 2024-2025 (till November 
18, 2024), towards availment of services from Indus is 
` 59,534 Mn.
Audit Committee : May 16, 2024
Board Meeting     : May 16, 2024
(e)
Date(s) of approval by the Board, if any; and 
Audit Committee
(f)
Amount paid as advances, if any
Nil
	
* Indus has ceased to be a Joint Venture of the Promoter Group and consequently ceased to be a related party w.e.f.  November 
19, 2024 and hence  transactions have been reported only upto that date.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Vodafone Idea Limited
Himanshu Kapania
Sunil Sood
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Date	 :	May 30, 2025	
Place	 :	Mumbai
(DIN : 03387441)
(DIN : 03132202)
49
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 57 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
ANNEXURE ‘D’
Disclosure of particulars with respect to Conservation of Energy, Technology Absorption 
and Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo as prescribed under Section 134(3)(m) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 8(3) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014.
	
The initiatives undertaken are as below:
A.	 CONSERVATION OF ENERGY
 
• 
Over 75% of VIL BTS portfolio - Outdoor BTS 
(20% reduction in energy consumption compared 
to Indoor BTS);
 
• 
Diesel elimination project initiated by VIL to reduce 
carbon footprint currently continued at over 11,700 
sites;
 
• 
100% of the telecom hardware procured by 
the Company is low power consuming telecom 
hardware;
 
• 
New Sites Deployment on Sharing Basis: >95% of 
the sites deployed were at existing 2G sites and/or 
shared sites as part of the mandated initiative to 
reduce carbon emissions and energy consumption;
	
Indian telecom industry has been able to penetrate 
well across the country, where even the grid has not 
been able to reach in more than half a century. As per 
license conditions, a telecom operator needs to maintain 
network availability higher than 99.5%. Assured power 
24x7 supply ranging from the load of 15 KW each is, 
therefore, a pre-requisite for any telecom tower site. 
One of the biggest challenges being faced now is power 
deficiency in most of the areas along with lack of power 
infra, considering the focus of the telecom sector on rural 
penetration. While expanding the network infrastructure 
exponentially across the geography of India, Vodafone 
Idea Limited (“VIL” or “Company”) maintained the need 
for increasing energy efficiency and reducing energy 
consumption.
 
• 
The Company continued active equipment energy 
saving initiatives like power saving features during 
low traffic period. All new packet-core deployments 
as well as new MSS/VoLTE circuit-core deployments 
use cloud architecture; and
 
• 
RET – solar based generation at over 350 sites.
	
Green IT
	
Accordingly, cost-effective energy-efficiency initiatives 
were continued across all spectrum of network expansion 
in the last Financial Year. This includes, more emphasis 
on infrastructure-sharing, deployment of high efficient 
network hardware, replacement of high consuming 
hardware with more efficient telecom hardware, 
increasing the energy efficiency of existing installations 
etc. The Company has recently also instituted an Energy 
and Carbon Management Policy.
(a)	 Steps taken or impact on conservation of energy:
	
Apart from Network operations, the Company has also 
made conscious efforts to make its IT operations greener 
and more efficient. This has been made possible by 
adopting sustainable practices and new technologies 
as listed below:
	
During the year under review, several steps were taken for 
conservation of energy, some of which are listed below:
	
Networks
	
On the Network front, the Company continued to 
adopt environmentally sustainable practices in their 
transactions with the same foundational objectives 
laid down as part of Company’s Energy and Carbon 
Management Policy:
 
• 
Consider Energy performance when operating VIL’s 
infrastructure;
 
• 
Cloud Computing & Virtualization: The Company 
has set-up multiple, inter-connected, high capacity 
servers to provide a huge resource pool and 
centralized management through Cloud Computing 
enabling the delivery of Infrastructure as a Service 
(IaaS). This Cloud Computing initiative has resulted 
in reduction of hardware footprint & energy 
consumption as well as optimal utilization of 
resources; VIL Data Centre virtualization is 80% and 
all the critical services are hosted on Virtualization 
platform except Database node.
 
• 
Continue with the procurement of most energy 
efficient Telecom Hardware; and
 
• 
Moving to MPS (Managed Print Services): The 
Company has initiated the process of deploying 
 
• 
Encourage Infrastructure Provider partners to adopt 
low carbon operations.
50


--- Page 58 ---
Corporate
Business Responsibility
Financial
Directors’ Report &
Governance Report
and Sustainability Report
Statements
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
saving on energy consumption and to reduce related 
emissions;
managed print services for the working environment; 
VIL uses MPS services and it is deployed across.
 
• 
Active Floor based cooling system - directing the 
cool air to the area where it is required rather than 
flooding the entire Area;
 
• 
False Flooring & False Ceiling void for better cooling;
 
• 
Different Temperature Zones to reduce air loss;
 
• 
Thermal Insulation along the flooring/ceiling 
to reduce heat dissipation including Utility 
(UPS, Transformer, Battery, Panel) Rooms;
 
• 
Electronic Billing: The Company constantly attempts 
to reduce the usage of paper, resulting in physical 
copies of bills and receipts. This is done through 
the deployment of best-in-class digital assets and 
user-friendly payment options. VIL promotes 
electronic billing to the customers and create 
awareness on its impact on environment; VIL billing 
system is electronic and we are not printing invoices 
and end to end billing service works on electronic 
model.
 
• 
Usage of Blanking panel in empty space of server 
Racks to reduce short cycling of cold air and hence 
for improved HVAC efficiency;
 
• 
Usage of Precision Air Conditioner (PAC) - Non DX 
units (without compressor and HVAC gases);
 
• 
Video Conferencing: To reduce Green House Gases 
(GHG) emissions, the Company actively promotes 
the use of Video Conferencing (VC) as an alternative 
to travelling for meetings both inter and intra-city, 
especially for internal purposes; VIL is using Gmeet 
services for Video Conference and all the meetings 
are happening through Gmeet and doesn’t require 
any travelling.
 
• 
Variable Frequency Drives (VFDs) have been installed 
in the Data Center’s HVAC systems to automatically 
reduce the speed and power consumption of motors 
when there is lower system load including chilled 
water pump motors and cooling tower fan motors;
 
• 
Night-watchman: A script was deployed at System 
Centre Configuration Manager (SCCM) level, which 
checked for Powered ON & will shut down machines 
during off business hours; and
 
• 
Based on power audits and an extensive study 
of energy usage, various initiatives have been 
undertaken over the years to optimize the usage 
of electricity, such as:
	
	
-	
Identification and rectification of hot spots; and
	
	
-	
Optimization of lighting and AC Usage 
(By utilizing LED and occupancy sensor).
 
• 
Power saving features implemented to reduce 
energy consumption. VIL has implemented a 
10 Minutes idle power policy in all the end user 
machines.
	
Data Centre - Airoli Navi Mumbai
 
• 
Advanced chilled water optimization routines are a 
part of the chilled water system;
 
• 
Implemented LED lighting system in DC and most 
of the office floors and also office area lighting 
is scheduled and on need basis in areas where 
the actual staff is present after the office hours. 
By practicing this, VIL is achieving power saving 
without compromising lux level in required office 
areas;
	
Your Company has 1 National Data Centre located 
at Airoli. The Data Centre is well under the “Efficient” 
category on the Standard Parameter of Power Usage 
Effectiveness (PUE). The Company measures Data Centre 
Energy efficiency on an ongoing basis and the Average 
PUE is 1.70 for Airoli Data Centre (which falls under the 
“Efficient” Category). The following measures are being 
undertaken to reduce energy use and/or save energy 
and related emissions in your Data Centre:
 
• 
Water cooled chillers are used at Airoli Data Centre 
to reduce energy consumption;
 
• 
Reduction in frequency of Daily DG Test Run, which 
has resulted in saving of fuel & DG running hours 
without compromising the reliability/availability of 
Data Centre backup power;
 
• 
Hot & Cold Aisle concept for better air circulation in 
Data Centre - Usage of Pro-curtain for separation 
of cold aisle and hot aisle for better cooling. Cold 
aisle containment implemented to increase Heating 
Ventilation and Air-Conditioning (HVAC) efficiency, 
 
• 
Carrying all the planned preventive maintenance 
activities of the Utility systems like HT Panels, 
Transformers during the scheduled MSEB Power 
shutdown, which has resulted in reducing the DG 
running hours/Fuel Consumption.
51
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 59 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
	
Facilities
 
• 
Your Company is replacing existing CFL based 
lighting fixtures to LED based fixtures on OPEX 
model for older facilities to achieve 100% 
conversion to lesser consumption loads.
 
• 
All new facilities are being designed to conform 
to Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design 
(LEED) certification standards. This will ensure lesser 
energy and water consumption per sq. ft. basis and 
also reduce the Company’s carbon footprint.
 
• 
Your Company is working to reduce its Carbon 
footprint by adoption of newer technologies and 
changing the consumption mix to include more 
renewable energy generators. The Company’s new 
Projects are conceptualized giving high priority to 
the energy efficient design. The Company operates 
with lux levels below 300 and keeps a good mix 
of natural and artificial illumination for conserving 
energy.
(b)	 Steps taken by the Company for utilizing alternate 
sources of energy:
	
The following initiatives have been undertaken by the 
Company in the previous years, to utilize alternate 
sources of energy and the same installations continued 
to be service in Financial Year 2024-25 also.
 
• 
Your Company’s office facilities have lighter surface 
colours and patterns, which absorb less and 
contribute to better lighting. The Company uses 
a combination of energy efficient CFL and LED 
lighting for illumination at our facilities. However, 
new projects have all LED fittings.
	
Off-Site Renewable Energy (RE) Deployment:
 
• 
In Air-conditioning space, your Company uses star 
rated Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) certified 
air conditioners in our facilities. The Company also 
uses Variable Refrigerant Volume (VRV) systems 
apart from the energy efficient chiller plants in your 
facilities.
	
This concept was initiated in past years based on Carbon 
abatement principle. In Financial Year 2024-25, we have 
renewables PPA at Telangana, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, 
Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi. We also buy 
green energy via IEX in Uttar Pradesh.
(c)	 The capital investment on energy conservation 
equipment:
	
The capital investment on energy conservation 
equipment was not material during the Financial Year 
ended March 31, 2025.
 
• 
The Company’s Energy Management includes 
regular monitoring of energy consumption of 
different types of loads on a daily basis and helps 
the Company to take corrective measures on an 
immediate basis. The Company’s average square 
feet consumptions have reduced over a period and 
match the benchmarks for office space.
B.	 TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION
 
• 
Some of the other measures in the Company’s office 
premises include:
a)	 Efforts made towards technology absorption
	
	
-	
Usage of Electronic ballasts instead of Copper 
ballasts for improved efficiency and reduction 
in energy consumption and emissions;
	
	
-	
Usage of logic controlling for emergency lights, 
which automatically is set on during power 
failure;
	
	
-	
VRV and inverter based air conditioning is being 
used in office area instead of a centralized 
system;
	
	
-	
Switching off all non-critical loads (office AC, 
lights, unused meeting rooms/cabins etc.) 
after working hours; and
	
The Company owns and operates its telecom network 
adaptation and innovation using its own resources. 
The focus of your Company is to enhance its 4G 
data broadband connectivity across the country. The 
Indian market has been experiencing explosive growth 
in mobile broadband services, fueled by affordable 
smartphone devices and a plethora of applications 
that are influencing social lifestyles. This is driving a 
continuous requirement for additional capacity and 
spectrum, in order to provide a best-in-class user 
experience to subscribers. Unprecedented loading of the 
network with scarce spectrum, limited infrastructure and 
right-of-way challenges for fiber layout has caused the 
Company to seek non-traditional ways for densification 
and optimization of its networks. The Company has 
	
	
-	
Switching off all FACADE lights near to outer 
glass of premises.
52


--- Page 60 ---
Corporate
Business Responsibility
Financial
Directors’ Report &
Governance Report
and Sustainability Report
Statements
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
embraced new technologies to overcome these 
challenges.
consumption, converting a majority of units into outdoor 
units and eliminating the need for air-conditioning.
c)	 In case of imported technology (imported during 
the last three years reckoned from the beginning 
of the financial year)
	
The Company has been able to offer seamless 
connectivity solutions to our customers through the 
deployment of Wi-Fi and Small Cell as well as 5G 
technologies at strategic locations, leading to an 
improved data experience for our customers.
	
The Company has not imported any technology in the 
given period, only telecom equipment was imported.
d)	 Expenditure incurred on Research and 
Development (R&D)
	
As part of our operating model, the Company has 
also partnered with some of the leading technology 
companies of the world which helps in implementing 
new technologies to manage our operations.
	
None
b)	 Benefits derived like product improvement, 
C.	 FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS AND OUTGO
cost reduction, product development or import 
substitution
	
Total foreign exchange used and earned for the year:
	
(a)	 Total Foreign Exchange Earnings	 :	 ` 35,549 Mn
	
(b)	 Total Foreign Exchange Outgo	
:	 ` 70,946 Mn
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
	
The cost of implementation of operations network is 
most optimal due to in-house handling of planning 
and designing. The speed to market was much better 
in terms of rural rollout and rollout of 4G sites due to 
strong in-house competency.
Vodafone Idea Limited
Himanshu Kapania
Sunil Sood
	
The Company owns and operates its telecom network 
Adaptation and Innovation using its own resources. 
Structured internal trainings are imparted to the team 
of engineers for their skill development and grooming.
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
(DIN : 03387441)
(DIN : 03132202)
	
With the help of latest technology, we have transformed 
our network in an environment-friendly manner by 
deploying ‘green’ base stations, reducing power 
Place	 :	Mumbai
Date	 :	May 30, 2025
53
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 61 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
ANNEXURE ‘E’
Disclosure of Remuneration under Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the 
Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
(i)	
The ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration of the employees of the 
Company for the Financial Year 2024-25 and percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief 
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary during the Financial Year 2024-25 are 
as under:
	
Directors
	
There are no Executive Directors and no remuneration is paid to the Non-Executive Directors. Only Independent Directors 
are entitled for sitting fees for attending the meetings of the Board and/or Committee thereof, which is within the limits 
prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013.
	
As the remuneration, by way of sitting fees, is not related to the performance or profit of the Company, the ratio of 
remuneration of each Director to the median employees remuneration is not computed.
	
Key Managerial Personnel (KMP)
Name of KMP and Designation
% increase in  
Ratio of remuneration of each 
Sr. 
No.
Remuneration in  
KMP to median remuneration  
FY 2024-25 (a)
of employees
7.2 %
103.4
1.
Mr. Akshaya Moondra  
Chief Executive Officer
7.7 %
33.4
2.
Mr. Murthy GVAS  
Chief Financial Officer
7.6 %
20.6
3.
Mr. Pankaj Kapdeo  
Company Secretary
	
(a)	
For determining the percentage increase in remuneration, one time payouts and long term incentive payouts have 
been excluded.
(ii)	 The percentage increase in the median remuneration of the employees of the Company for the Financial 
Year 2024-25
	
The median remuneration of the employees in the Financial Year 2024-25 was increased by 12.7%, as compared to 
the Financial Year 2023-24.
	
The Median Remuneration of Employees of the Company during the Financial Year 2024-25 was ` 14.2 Lacs.
(iii)	 The number of permanent employees on the rolls of the Company
	
There were 9,985 permanent employees on the rolls of Company as on March 31, 2025.
(iv)	 Average percentage increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial 
personnel in the last Financial Year i.e. 2024-25 and its comparison with the percentage increase in 
the managerial remuneration
	
The average increase in the remuneration of employees excluding Key Managerial Personnel during Financial Year 
 
2024-25 was 7.5% and the average increase in the remuneration of Key Managerial Personnel was 7.4%.
(v)	 Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Company
	
The remuneration of Directors was as per the Remuneration Policy of the Company.
54


--- Page 62 ---
Corporate
Business Responsibility
Financial
Directors’ Report &
Governance Report
and Sustainability Report
Statements
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
ANNEXURE ‘F’
FORM NO. MR.3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED ON 31ST MARCH, 2025
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule No.9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
Vodafone Idea Limited,
Suman Tower, Plot No. 18,
Sector-11, 
Gandhinagar-382011
Sir’s,
(v)	 The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 (‘SEBI Act’):-
	
(a) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011; 
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good 
corporate practices by Vodafone Idea Limited, (hereinafter 
called the Company). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a 
manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the 
corporate conducts/statutory compliances and expressing 
our opinion thereon.
	
(b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
	
(c) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018;
	
(d) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat equity) 
Regulations, 2021; 
	
(e) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) 
Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act 
and dealing with client; 
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, 
minute books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the company and also the information 
provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 
representatives in electronic form using the Information 
Technology Tools during the conduct of secretarial audit, we 
hereby report that in our opinion, the company has during 
the audit year covering the year ended on 31st March, 2025 
complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and 
also that the Company has proper board-processes and 
compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner 
and subject to the reporting made hereinafter.
	
(f) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; (Not 
Applicable for the period under review)
	
(g)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms 
and returns filed and other records maintained by the 
Company for the financial year ended on 31st March, 2025 
according to the provisions of:
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018; (Not 
Applicable for the period under review)
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made 
thereunder;
	
(h)	 Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor 
(ii)	 The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) 
Protection and Education Fund) Regulations, 2009;
and the rules made thereunder;
(iii)	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
Bye-laws framed thereunder;
	
(i)	
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depository 
Participant) Regulations, 2018; and circulars/ 
guidelines issued thereunder;
(iv)	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the 
rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent of 
Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment 
and External Commercial Borrowings; 
	
(j)	
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and 
Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 
2021; (Not applicable for the period under 
review) 
55
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 63 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
(vi)	 We have relied on the representation made by the 
size and operations of the company to monitor and ensure 
compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and 
guidelines.
We further report that the capital clause of Memorandum 
of Association was altered on two occasions as follows:
Company, its Officers and on the reports given by 
designated professionals for systems and processes 
formed by the Company to monitor and ensure 
compliances under other applicable Acts, Laws and 
Regulations to the Company. 
(i)	
Consequent to special resolution passed at the 
 
Extra-Ordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 
 
	
The list of major head / groups of Acts, Laws and 
Regulations as applicable to the Company is as under:
	
1.	
The Telecommunications Act, 2023
8th May, 2024 for Alteration in the Authorised Share 
Capital of the Company, the Capital Clause of the 
Memorandum of Association of the Company was 
amended to increase the Authorised Share Capital from 
 
	
2.	
Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act, 1997 
and the rules and regulations made thereunder.
	
3.	
Department of Telecommunication guidelines and 
License Agreements.
	
We have also examined compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the following: 
	
(i) 	 Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India. 
	
(ii) 	 The Listing Agreements entered into by the 
Company with Stock Exchanges read with 
 
` 7,50,00,00,00,000 (Rupees Seventy Five Thousand 
Crore only) divided into 70,00,00,00,000 (Seven 
Thousand Crore) equity shares of ` 10/- each and 
5,00,00,00,000 (Five Hundred Crore) Preference Shares 
of ` 10/- each to ` 10,00,00,00,00,000 (Rupees One Lakh 
Crore only) divided into 95,00,00,00,000 (Nine Thousand 
Five Hundred Crore) equity shares of ` 10/- each and 
5,00,00,00,000 (Five Hundred Crore) Preference Shares 
of ` 10/- each by creating additional 25,00,00,00,000 
(Two Thousand Five Hundred Crore) equity shares of 
 
` 10/- each, aggregating to ` 2,50,00,00,00,000 
(Rupees Twenty Five Thousand Crore only).
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015. 
(ii)	 Consequent to an order bearing no. 1002/05/2024-LFP 
	
During the period under review the Company has 
complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, 
Regulations, Guidelines, Standards, etc. mentioned 
above.
We further report that:
Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted. The 
changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that 
took place during the period under review were carried out 
in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice for the meetings of the Board and 
Committees constituted by the Board were given to all the 
Directors and members of the Committee and where shorter 
notice of meetings were given and/or agenda and notes 
on agenda were circulated less than seven days before the 
meetings, the provisions of Section 173 (3) of the Act were 
complied with and a system exists for seeking and obtaining 
further information and clarifications on the agenda items 
before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the 
meeting.
dated 29th March 2025 issued by the Government 
of India, Ministry of Communications, Department 
of Telecommunications under section 62(4) of the 
Companies Act, 2013, directing conversion of loan 
(outstanding spectrum auction dues) into equity shares, 
the Authorised share capital of the Company stands 
increased by ` 3,69,50,00,00,000 (Rupees Thirty Six 
Thousand Nine Hundred and Fifty Crore) consisting of 
36,95,00,00,000 (Three thousand six hundred and ninety 
five crore) equity shares of ` 10/- each, in accordance 
with Section 62(6) of the Companies Act, 2013. 
Consequently, w.e.f. 29th March, 2025, the Authorised 
share capital of the Company has been increased and 
Capital Clause of the Memorandum of Association of 
the Company was amended to increase the Authorised 
Share Capital from ` 10,00,00,00,00,000 divided into 
95,00,00,00,000 equity shares of ` 10/- each and 
5,00,00,00,000 Preference Shares of ` 10/- each to 
` 13,69,50,00,00,000 divided into 1,31,95,00,00,000 
equity shares of ` 10/- each and 5,00,00,00,000 
Preference Shares of ` 10/- each.
We further report that during the year under review, 
following allotments were made:
All decisions in the Board are carried through, while the 
dissenting members’ views, if any, are captured and recorded 
as part of the minutes.
We further report that there are adequate systems 
 
(i)	
Pursuant to approval granted by the members of 
the Company vide special resolution passed at their 
and processes in the company commensurate with the 
56


--- Page 64 ---
Corporate
Business Responsibility
Financial
Directors’ Report &
Governance Report
and Sustainability Report
Statements
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
meeting held on 2nd April, 2024, the Capital Raising 
Committee at its meeting held on 23rd April, 2024, 
allotted 16,363,636,363 equity shares of face value 
of ` 10/- each at a price of `11/- per equity share 
fully paid up aggregating to ` 179,999,999,993/- 
 
Equity Shares of face value of ` 10/- each at an 
exercise price of ` 10/- per equity share aggregating 
to ` 1,220,640/- under Tranche IV (RSU) of Employee 
Stock Option Scheme, 2013 (ESOS – 2013) to the 
eligible employees (RSU’s Grantees) against the RSUs 
exercised by them.
pursuant to Further Public Offer vide Prospectus dated 
22nd April, 2024.
(vi)	 Pursuant to approval granted by the members of the 
(ii)	 Pursuant to approval granted by the members of the 
Company vide special resolution passed at their meeting 
held on 8th May, 2024, the Capital Raising Committee 
at its meeting held on 21st May, 2024 has allotted 
1,395,427,034 equity shares of face value of ` 10/- 
each at a price of ` 14.87 per equity share (including 
a premium of ` 4.87 per equity share aggregating to 
 
` 20,749,999,995.58 to Oriana Investments Pte. Ltd., 
Promoter Group Company, on preferential basis.
(iii)	 The Capital Raising Committee at its meeting held on 
Company vide special resolution passed at their meeting 
held on 7th January, 2025, the Capital Raising Committee 
at its meeting held on 9th January, 2025 has allotted 
an aggregate of 1,69,32,18,361 equity shares of face 
value of ` 10/- each at a price of ` 11.28 per equity 
share (including a premium of ` 1.28 per equity share) 
aggregating to ` 19,099,503,112.08 to Omega Telecom 
Holdings Private Limited (1,08,45,94,607 equity shares) 
and Usha Martin Telematics Limited (60,86,23,754 
equity shares) Promoters of the Company, on preferential 
basis.
12th July, 2024 has allotted 16,00,00,000 Equity Shares 
of face value of ` 10/- each to Abhigham Shares and 
Securities Private Limited and Apex Homes Private 
Limited pursuant to conversion of 1600 Optionally 
Convertible Debentures.
(iv)	 Pursuant to approval granted by the members of the 
We further report that the Company vide special resolution 
passed by means of Postal Ballot on 10th October, 2024, 
approved the adoption and implementation of Vodafone Idea 
Limited Employee Stock Option and Performance Stock Unit 
Scheme 2024 comprising issuance of upto 34,85,00,000 
Options / Performance Stock Units (convertible into 
equivalent number of Equity Shares) to eligible employees 
of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Company vide special resolution passed at their meeting 
held on 10th July, 2024, the Capital Raising Committee 
at its meetings held on 18th July, 2024 and 19th July, 
2024 has allotted an aggregate of 1,660,810,804 
equity shares of face value of ` 10/- each at a price of 
 
Umesh Ved
	
	
	
Umesh Ved & Associates
Company Secretaries
FCS No.: 4411
` 14.80 per equity share (including a premium of ` 4.80 
per equity share) aggregating to ` 24,579,999,899.20 
to Nokia Solutions and Networks India Private Limited 
(1,027,027,024 equity shares) and Ericsson India Private 
Limited (633,783,780 equity shares), Non-Promoters 
(Vendors) of the Company, on preferential basis in four 
tranches.
C.P
. No.: 2924
Date: May 30, 2025	
Peer Review No.6564/2025
(v)	 The Nomination and Remuneration Committee at its 
Place: Ahmedabad	
UDIN: F004411G000501701
meeting held on 29th July, 2024 has allotted 122,064 
57
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 65 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
To,
The Members,
Vodafone Idea Limited,
Suman Tower, Plot No. 18,Sector-11, 
Gandhinagar-382011
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter:
5. 	 The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and 
1. 	 Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of 
other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is 
the responsibility of management. Our examination was 
limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
the management of the company. Our responsibility is 
to express an opinion on these secretarial records based 
on our audit.
6. 	 The secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance 
2. 	 We have followed the audit practices and processes 
as to the future viability of the company nor of the 
efficiency or effectiveness with which the management 
has conducted the affairs of the company. 
as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance 
about the correctness of the contents of the Secretarial 
records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure 
that correct facts are reflected in secretarial records. We 
believe that the processes and practices, we followed 
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Umesh Ved
3. 	 We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness 
	
	
	
Umesh Ved & Associates
Company Secretaries
of financial records and Books of Accounts of the 
Company.
FCS No.: 4411
C.P
. No.: 2924
4. 	 Wherever required, we have obtained the Management 
Date: May 30, 2025	
Peer Review No.6564/2025
Place: Ahmedabad	
UDIN: F004411G000501701
representation about the compliance of laws, rules and 
regulations and happenings of events etc.
58


--- Page 66 ---
Corporate
Business Responsibility
Financial
Directors’ Report &
Governance Report
and Sustainability Report
Statements
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
ANNEXURE ‘F-1’
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH, 2025
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
Vodafone Idea Shared Services Limited 
(CIN: U64204MH2016PLC287257)
10th Floor, Birla Centurion Century Mills Compound 
Pandurang Budhkar Marg, Worli 
Mumbai- 400030
v.	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 (‘SEBI Act’):-
	
(a) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011; - (Not Applicable)
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to 
good corporate practices by Vodafone Idea Shared Services 
Limited (hereinafter called the Company). Secretarial Audit 
was conducted in a manner that provided us with a reasonable 
basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory 
compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
	
(b) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; 
- (Not Applicable)
	
(c) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018; (Not Applicable)
	
(d) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021 (Not Applicable)
	
(e) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) 
Regulations, 2021; (Not Applicable)
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, 
minute books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Company, which were provided in electronic 
form and as per the representation of the Company are duly 
maintained as required under the Companies Act, 2013 and 
also the information provided by the Company, its officers, 
agents and authorized representatives during the conduct 
of secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, the 
Company has, during the audit period covering the financial 
year ended on March 31, 2025 complied with the statutory 
provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company has 
proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place 
to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting 
made hereinafter:
	
(f) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) 
Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act 
and dealing with client; (Not Applicable)
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms 
and returns filed and other records maintained by the 
Company for the financial year ended on March 31, 2025 
according to the provisions of:
	
(g) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
i.	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made 
thereunder;
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; (Not 
Applicable) and 
	
(h) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback 
ii.	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) 
and the rules made thereunder; (Not Applicable)
of Securities) Regulations, 2018; (Not Applicable)
iii.	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
Bye-laws framed thereunder;
We have also examined the compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the 
iv.	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules 
and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign 
Direct Investment; (Not Applicable)
	
i)	
Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India.
59
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 67 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
	
ii)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 and amendments made 
thereunder. (“Listing Regulations”) (Not Applicable 
to the Company during Audit Period) Listing 
Agreement and hence the same is not commented 
upon. 
Adequate notices were given to all Directors to schedule the 
Board Meetings. Agenda and detailed notes on agenda are 
sent in advance of the meetings, and a system exists for 
seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications 
on the agenda items before the meeting for meaningful 
participation at the meeting. All decisions in the Board are 
carried through unanimous consents, while the dissenting 
members’ views, if any, are captured and recorded as part 
of the minutes.
We further report that, based on the representation 
made by the Company and its Officers in respect of systems 
and mechanism formed / followed by the Company and 
on examination of the relevant documents and records in 
pursuance thereof, on test check basis, the following laws, 
regulations, directions, orders are applicable specifically to 
the Company:
(a)	 Information Technology Act, 2000
We further report that as per the representation/
information provided by the Company and its authorized 
representatives there are adequate systems and processes 
in the Company commensurate with the size and operations 
of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with 
applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards and guidelines.
We further report that examination / audit of financial laws 
such as direct and indirect tax laws has not been carried out 
by us as a part of this Secretarial Audit.
We further report that during the audit period there were 
no specific events/actions having a major bearing on the 
Company’s affairs in pursuance of the above referred laws, 
rules, regulations, guidelines, standards, etc.
During the audit period, the Company has complied with the 
provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations and Guidelines, to 
the extent applicable.
For Priti J Sheth & Associates
Company Secretaries
	
Priti Sheth
	
FCS: 6833
	
COP: 5518
Date: April 25, 2025	
Peer Review No: 1888/2022
Place: Mumbai 	
UDIN: F006833G000241298
We further report that the Board of Directors of the 
Company is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive 
Directors, Non-Executive Directors to the extent applicable, As 
per the Materiality Policy of the holding Company, i.e Vodafone 
Idea Limited, the Company ceases to be a material subsidiary 
of the holding Company, hence the Independent Director of 
the holding Company has not been appointed on the Board 
of the Company as per Regulation 24 of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligation and Disclosure Requirements) Regulation 2015. 
60


--- Page 68 ---
Corporate
Business Responsibility
Financial
Directors’ Report &
Governance Report
and Sustainability Report
Statements
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
To, 
The Members
Vodafone Idea Shared Services Limited 
(Formerly known as Vodafone India Ventures Limited)
Our Secretarial Audit Report dated 25th April, 2025 is to be 
read along with this letter.
We report that:
e)	
The compliance of the provisions of the corporate and 
other applicable laws, rules, regulation and standards is 
the responsibility of the management. Our examination 
was limited to the verification of procedures on test 
basis.
a)	
Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility 
of the management of the Company. Our responsibility 
is to express an opinion on these secretarial records 
based on our audit.
f)	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance 
as to the future viability of the Company nor of the 
efficacy or effectiveness with which the management 
has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For Priti J Sheth & Associates
Company Secretaries
b)	
We have followed the audit practices and processes as 
were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about 
the correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. 
The verification was done on test basis to ensure that 
correct facts are reflected in secretarial records. We 
believe that the processes and practices, we followed 
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
	
Priti Sheth
c)	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness 
of the financial statements of the Company.
	
FCS: 6833
	
COP: 5518
Date: April 25, 2025	
Peer Review No: 1888/2022
d)	
Wherever required, we have obtained the Management 
representation about the compliances of laws, rules, 
regulations and happening of events etc.
Place: Mumbai 	
UDIN: F006833G000241298
61
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 69 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
ANNEXURE ‘F-2’
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH, 2025
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
Vodafone Idea Communication Systems Limited 
(Formerly known as Mobile Commerce Solutions Limited)
(CIN: U74900GJ2008PLC125479)
2nd Floor, Block-A, Vodafone House, 
Corporate Road Prahlad Nagar, 
off S G Highway Ahmedabad GJ 380051 IN
iv.	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules 
and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign 
Direct Investment; (Not Applicable)
v.	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 (‘SEBI Act’):-
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to 
good corporate practices by Vodafone Idea Communication 
Systems Limited (hereinafter called the Company). 
Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that provided 
us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/
statutory compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
	
(a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011; - (Not Applicable)
	
(b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; 
- (Not Applicable)
	
(c) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018; (Not Applicable)
	
(d) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021 (Not Applicable)
	
(e) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, 
minute books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Company, which were provided in electronic 
form and as per the representation of the Company are duly 
maintained as required under the Companies Act, 2013 and 
also the information provided by the Company, its officers, 
agents and authorized representatives during the conduct 
of secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, the 
company has, during the audit period covering the financial 
year ended on March 31, 2025 complied with the statutory 
provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company has 
proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place 
to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting 
made hereinafter: 
(Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) 
Regulations, 2021; (Not Applicable)
	
(f) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms 
and returns filed and other records maintained by the 
Company for the financial year ended on March 31, 2025 
according to the provisions of:
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) 
Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act 
and dealing with client; (Not Applicable)
i.	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made 
thereunder;
	
(g) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
ii.	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) 
and the rules made thereunder; (Not Applicable)
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; (Not 
Applicable) and 
	
(h) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback 
iii.	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
Bye-laws framed thereunder;
of Securities) Regulations, 2018; (Not Applicable)
62


--- Page 70 ---
Corporate
Business Responsibility
Financial
Directors’ Report &
Governance Report
and Sustainability Report
Statements
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
We have also examined the compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the 
i)	
Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India.
sent in advance of the meetings, and a system exists for 
seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications 
on the agenda items before the meeting for meaningful 
participation at the meeting. All decisions in the Board are 
carried through unanimous consents, while the dissenting 
members’ views, if any, are captured and recorded as part 
of the minutes.
ii)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 and amendments made thereunder. (“Listing 
Regulations”) (Not Applicable to the Company during 
Audit Period) Listing Agreement and hence the same is 
not commented upon. 
We further report that as per the representation/
information provided by the Company and its authorized 
representatives there are adequate systems and processes 
in the Company commensurate with the size and operations 
of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with 
applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards and guidelines.
We further report that examination / audit of financial laws 
such as direct and indirect tax laws has not been carried out 
by us as a part of this Secretarial Audit.
During the audit period, the Company has complied with the 
provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations and Guidelines, to 
the extent applicable.
We further report that during the audit period there were 
no specific events/actions having a major bearing on the 
Company’s affairs in pursuance of the above referred laws, 
rules, regulations, guidelines, standards, etc. 
For Priti J Sheth & Associates
Company Secretaries
	
Priti Sheth
	
FCS: 6833
We further report that the Board of Directors of the 
Company is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive 
Directors, Non-Executive Directors to the extent applicable. As 
per the Materiality Policy of the holding Company, i.e Vodafone 
Idea Limited, the Company ceases to be a material subsidiary 
of the holding Company, hence the Independent Director of 
the holding Company has not been appointed on the Board 
of the Company as per Regulation 24 of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligation and Disclosure Requirements) Regulation 2015. 
	
COP: 5518
Date: April 25, 2025	
Peer Review No: 1888/2022
Adequate notices were given to all Directors to schedule the 
Board Meetings. Agenda and detailed notes on agenda are 
Place: Mumbai 	
UDIN: F006833G000241298
63
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 71 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
To, 
The Members 
Vodafone Idea Communication Systems Limited 
(Formerly known as Mobile Commerce Solutions Limited)
(CIN: U74900GJ2008PLC125479)
Our Secretarial Audit Report dated 25th April, 2025 is to be 
read along with this letter.
We report that
e)	
The compliance of the provisions of the corporate and 
other applicable laws, rules, regulation and standards is 
the responsibility of the management. Our examination 
was limited to the verification of procedures on test 
basis.
a)	
Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility 
of the management of the Company. Our responsibility 
is to express an opinion on these secretarial records 
based on our audit.
f)	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance 
as to the future viability of the Company nor of the 
efficacy or effectiveness with which the management 
has conducted the affairs of the Company. 
For Priti J Sheth & Associates
Company Secretaries
b)	
We have followed the audit practices and processes as 
were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about 
the correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. 
The verification was done on test basis to ensure that 
correct facts are reflected in secretarial records. We 
believe that the processes and practices, we followed 
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
	
Priti Sheth
c)	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness 
of the financial statements of the Company.
	
FCS: 6833
	
COP: 5518
Date: April 25, 2025	
Peer Review No: 1888/2022
Place: Mumbai 	
UDIN: F006833G000241298
d)	
Wherever required, we have obtained the Management 
representation about the compliances of laws, rules, 
regulations and happening of events etc.
64


--- Page 72 ---
Corporate
Business Responsibility
Financial
Directors’ Report &
Governance Report
and Sustainability Report
Statements
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
ANNEXURE ‘F-3’
FORM NO. MR.3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
[Pursuant to Regulation 24A of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]
To,
The Members,
Vodafone Idea Manpower Services Limited 
Suman Tower Plot No. 18, Sector No. 11 
Gandhinagar Gujarat 382011.
(i)	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) 
and the rules made thereunder;
(ii)	 The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 (‘SEBI Act’):-
	
(a)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
I have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of 
applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good 
corporate practices by Vodafone Idea Manpower Services 
Limited (hereinafter called the “Company”) during the 
financial year ended 31st March 2025. Secretarial Audit was 
conducted in a manner that provided me a reasonable basis 
for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances/ 
board process and expressing my opinion thereon.
(Listing Obligations and Disclosures Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015;
	
(b)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018;
	
(c)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021;
	
(d)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Based on my verification of the Company’s books, papers, 
minute books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Company and also the electronic data 
provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 
representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit I hereby 
report that in my opinion, the Company has, during the audit 
period covering the financial year ended on March 31, 2025 
(Audit Period) generally complied with the statutory provisions 
listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board 
processes and compliance mechanism in place to the extent, 
in the manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
(Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) 
Regulations, 2021;
	
(e)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
I have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and 
returns filed and other records maintained by the Company 
for the Financial Year ended on March 31, 2025 according 
to the applicable provisions of: 
	
(f)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) and the rules made 
there under, as may be applicable;
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011
(ii)	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
	
(g)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Bye-laws framed thereunder as applicable; 
(iii)	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) 
Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act 
and dealing with client;
and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign 
Direct Investment; - Not Applicable 
	
(h)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; and
The Company being an unlisted entity, the provisions of 
the following regulations and prescribed guidelines are not 
applicable to the Company for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2025 
	
(i)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018;
65
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 73 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
I have also examined the compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the following:
Majority decisions are carried through and recorded in the 
minutes and there were no dissenting members for any 
decisions in the Board meetings during the period under 
review.
i.	
Secretarial Standards with regard to Meetings of Board 
of Directors (SS-1) and General Meetings (SS-2) issued 
by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
ii.	
The Company, being an unlisted public limited company, 
has not entered into any Listing Agreement; accordingly, 
no comments are offered in this regard. 
I further report that, as per the information provided by the 
management, there are adequate systems and processes in 
the company commensurate with the size and operations 
of the company to monitor and ensure compliance with 
applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
I further report that examination / audit of financial laws 
such as direct and indirect tax laws has not been carried out 
by us as a part of this Secretarial Audit.
I further report that during the audit period there were no 
specific or material corporate events/actions undertaken by 
the Company which have a major bearing on the Company’s 
affairs in respect of the above referred laws, rules, regulations, 
guidelines, standards, etc. 
I further report that the Board of Directors of the Company is 
duly constituted, the company being wholly owned subsidiary 
of Vodafone Idea Limited, appointment of independent 
director is exempted vide MCA circular 09/2017 dated 
 
For VKMG & Associates LLP
Company Secretaries 
5th September, 2017, further the Company is not required 
to comply with Section 177 and Section 178 with respect 
to Audit Committee and Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee. There were no changes in the composition of 
the Board of Directors during the period under review.
FRN: L2019MH005300
Anish Gupta
Partner
FCS: 5733, CP No. 4092
Place: Mumbai	
PRN: 5424/2024
Date: May 24, 2025	
UDIN: F005733G000433655
The Board Meetings wherever held at shorter notice, have 
obtained necessary consent from directors and same have 
been duly noted in Board meeting Minutes. The agenda and 
detailed notes on agenda were sent at Shorter Notice and a 
system exists for seeking and obtaining further information 
and clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting 
and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
Note: This report is to be read with my letter of even date 
which is annexed as “Annexure A” herewith and forms an 
integral part of this report.
All resolutions/decisions including Circular Resolutions of the 
Board of Directors are approved by the requisite majority and 
are duly recorded in the respective minutes.
66


--- Page 74 ---
Corporate
Business Responsibility
Financial
Directors’ Report &
Governance Report
and Sustainability Report
Statements
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
“ANNEXURE A”
To,
The Members,
Vodafone Idea Manpower Services Limited 
Suman Tower Plot No. 18, Sector No. 11  
Gandhinagar GJ 382011 IN.
My report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
of the management. My examination was limited to the 
verification of the procedures and systems on test basis.
1.	
Maintenance of Secretarial record is the responsibility of 
the management of the Company. My responsibility is to 
express an opinion on these Secretarial records based 
on my audit.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance 
as to the future viability of the Company nor of the 
efficacy or effectiveness with which the Management 
has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For VKMG & Associates LLP
2.	
I have followed the audit practices and processes as were 
appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the 
correctness of the contents of the Secretarial records. 
The verification was done on test basis to ensure that 
correct facts are reflected in Secretarial records. I believe 
that the processes and practices followed provide a 
reasonable basis for my opinion.
Company Secretaries 
FRN: L2019MH005300
3.	
I have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of 
financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
Anish Gupta
Partner
4.	
Wherever required, I have obtained the Management’s 
representation about the compliance of laws, rules and 
regulations and happening of events etc.
FCS: 5733, CP No. 4092
Place: Mumbai	
PRN: 5424/2024
Date: May 24, 2025	
UDIN: F005733G000433655
5.	
The compliance of the Corporate and other applicable 
laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility 
67
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 75 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
control to ensure that the business of the Company 
Company’s Philosophy on Corporate Governance
is conducted in the best interests of the shareholders 
Corporate Governance refers to mechanisms, processes and 
and society at large. The Board is duly supported by the 
relations by which corporations are controlled and directed. 
Management in ensuring effective functioning of the 
The essence of Corporate Governance lies in promoting and 
Company.
maintaining integrity, transparency and accountability across 
all business practices. Corporate Governance essentially 
Composition of the Board
involves balancing the interests of Company’s Stakeholders, 
The Company has a balanced and diverse Board, which 
such as shareholders, management, customers, suppliers, 
includes independent professionals and confirms to 
financiers, government and the community.
the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the 
Corporate Governance has always been intrinsic to 
Listing Regulations. The Company’s Board represents a 
the management of the business and affairs of our 
confluence of experience and expertise from diverse areas 
Company. Given the market and regulatory movements, 
of technology, banking, telecommunications, general 
the Company has continued to inculcate, imbibe and 
management and entrepreneurship. It reflects a judicious 
perpetuate governance tenets. Corporate Governance in 
mix of professionalism, competence and sound knowledge 
VIL is a reflection of principles entrenched in our values 
which enables the Board to provide effective leadership to 
and policies, leading to value driven growth. At VIL ensuring 
the Company.
fairness, transparency and accountability across all business 
As on March 31, 2025, the Board comprised of twelve 
processes is of utmost importance. We believe that good 
members consisting of one Non-Executive Chairman, six 
governance practices stem from the culture and mindset 
Independent Directors (including one Independent Woman 
of the organization. While making business decisions our 
Director) and five Non-Executive Directors.
objective is to meet stakeholders’ interest and societal 
During the year under review, Mr. Arun Adhikari ceased to 
expectations. We at VIL are committed in fostering and 
be an Independent Director pursuant to completion of his 
sustaining a culture that integrates all components of good 
second term on August 30, 2024. Mr. Rajat Kumar Jain 
governance and demonstrates highest standard of ethical 
was appointed as an Independent Director of the Company 
and responsible business conduct. The Company confirms 
w.e.f. August 31, 2024 for a period of five years. Mr. Sateesh 
compliance to the Corporate Governance requirements as 
Kamath, Non-Executive Director, representing Vodafone 
enshrined in the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Group resigned w.e.f. October 30, 2024 and Mr. Selcuk 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 as amended from time 
Karacay, nominated by Vodafone Group, was appointed 
to time [hereinafter referred to as ‘Listing Regulations’], the 
as Non-Executive Director liable to retire by rotation w.e.f. 
details of which for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025 
October 30, 2024. Further, Mr. Krishnan Ramachandran 
are as set out hereunder:
ceased to be an Independent Director pursuant to completion 
1.	 BOARD OF DIRECTORS
of his second term on December 26, 2024 and Mr. Sunirmal 
An active, informed and independent Board is a pre-requisite 
Talukdar was appointed as an Independent Director of the 
for strong and effective Corporate Governance. The Board 
Company with effect from December 27, 2024 to December 
plays a crucial role in overseeing how the management 
5, 2026 as he would attain 75 years of age. There have been 
safeguards the interests of all the stakeholders. The Board 
no other changes in the Board of Directors apart from the 
ensures that the Company has clear goals aligned to the 
changes as mentioned above during the year under review.
shareholders’ value and growth. The Board critically evaluates 
As regards Key Managerial Personnel of the Company, there 
strategic direction of the Company and exercises appropriate 
have been no changes during the year under review.
68


--- Page 76 ---
Directors’ Report &
Business Responsibility
Financial
Corporate
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
and Sustainability Report
Statements
Governance Report
The Composition of the Board of Directors and the number of Directorships and Committee positions held by them as on 
March 31, 2025 are as under:
Outside Committee 
Details of other listed companies in which 
Name of Director
Category
No. of Outside 
Directorship(s) 
Positions Held2
Director is part of the Board and Category of 
Held1
Directorship
Public
Member
Chairman/ 
Chairperson
-
-
-
-
Mr. Ravinder Takkar
Non-Executive 
Chairman
Mr. Kumar Mangalam Birla
Non-Executive
7
-
-
1.	 Aditya Birla Capital Limited (Non-Executive Director)
2.	 Aditya Birla Fashion and Retail Limited (Non-
Executive Director)
3.	 Aditya Birla Real Estate Limited (Non-Executive 
Director)
4.	 Grasim Industries Limited (Non-Executive Director)
5.	 Hindalco Industries Limited (Non-Executive Director)
6.	 Ultratech Cement Limited (Non-Executive Director)
Mr. Himanshu Kapania
Non-Executive 
-
-
-
-
Mr. Sushil Agarwal
Non-Executive
6
4
-
1.	 Aditya Birla Capital Limited (Non-Executive Director)
2.	 Grasim Industries Limited (Non-Executive Director)
3.	 Hindalco Industries Limited (Non-Executive Director)
Mr. Sunil Sood
Non-Executive
-
-
-
-
Mr. Ashwani Windlass
Independent
4
2
1
1.	 HT Media Limited (Independent Director)
2.	 Jubilant Foodworks Ltd. (Independent Director)
3.	 Bata India Limited (Independent Director)
Ms. Neena Gupta
Independent
1
-
-
-
Mr. Suresh Vaswani
Independent
2
3
-
1.	 Mastek Limited (Independent Director)
2.	 ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 
(Independent Director)
Mr. Anjani Kumar Agrawal
Independent
6
2
3
1.	 Emami Limited (Independent Director)
2.	 Welspun Corp Limited (Independent Director)
3.	 Ultratech Cement Limited (Independent Director)
4.	 Hindalco Industries Limited (Independent Director)
Mr. Selcuk Karacay3
Non-Executive
-
-
-
-
Mr. Sunirmal Talukdar4
Independent 
6
3
4
1.	 Aditya Birla Real Estate Limited (Independent Director)
2.	 Aditya Birla Fashion & Retail Limited (Independent 
Director)
3.	 Sasken Technologies Limited (Independent Director)
4.	 Heubach Colorants India Limited (Independent 
Director)
5.	 Assam Carbons Products Limited (Independent 
Director)
Mr. Rajat Kumar Jain5
Independent 
4
4
-
1.	 Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited 
(Independent Director)
2.	 Fino Payments Bank Limited (Independent Director)
1	 Directorships held by the Directors as mentioned above, excludes directorships held in private companies, foreign companies and 
companies registered under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013. 
2	 In accordance with Regulation 26 of the Listing Regulations, Memberships/Chairmanships of two Committees viz. Audit Committee 
and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee of all Public Limited Companies have been considered. Chaimanship of the Committee is 
not included in the count of membership of the Committee.
3	 Appointed as a Non-Executive Director w.e.f. October 30, 2024
4	 Appointed as an Independent Director w.e.f. December 27, 2024
5	 Appointed as an Independent Director w.e.f. August 31, 2024
69
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 77 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
The Board periodically evaluates the need for change in its 
size and composition to ensure that it remains aligned with 
statutory and business requirements. Also, in the event of 
any cessations, the Company ensures that the composition 
is fulfilled within stipulated time.
of their appointment has been uploaded on the website of 
the Company. The Company has received declarations from 
all the Independent Directors confirming that they meet 
the criteria of independence as specified under Regulation 
16(1)(b) of the Listing Regulations and Section 149(6) of 
the Companies Act, 2013 and they are qualified to act as 
Independent Directors and that they are independent of the 
management. In terms of Regulation 25(8) of SEBI Listing 
Regulations, they have confirmed that they are not aware 
of any circumstance or situation which exists or may be 
reasonably anticipated that could impair or impact their 
ability to discharge their duties.
None of the Director(s) on the Board holds directorship in 
more than ten public limited companies and in more than 
seven listed companies. Further, none of the Independent 
Directors serves as an Independent Director in more than 
seven listed companies. Also, none of the Director is a 
member of more than ten Committees or Chairman of more 
than five Committees, across all the Companies in which 
he/she is a Director.
Key Skill Matrix of the Board
None of the Directors are related to each other. The Company 
has issued the formal letter of appointment to all the 
Independent Directors as prescribed under the provisions 
of the Companies Act, 2013 and the terms and conditions 
The Vodafone Idea Board comprises of qualified members 
who bring in the required skills, competence and expertise 
that allow them to make effective contributions to the Board 
and its Committees.
The Board has identified the following skills/expertise/competencies to function and discharge their responsibilities 
effectively and as available to the Board:
Industry knowledge and 
Innovation
Experience in driving business success in markets, with an understanding of diverse 
business environments, economic conditions, cultures and regulatory frameworks, and 
a broad perspective on local as well as global market opportunities.
Financial Literacy, Risk 
Management and legal 
compliance
In depth understanding of financial statements, financial management and reporting 
processes, internal control, expertise in dealing with complex financial transactions, 
monitoring the effectiveness of risk management framework and profound legal 
knowledge and expertise in corporate law matters and other regulatory aspects. 
Sales and Marketing
Experience in developing strategies to grow sales and market share, build brand awareness 
and equity, and enhance enterprise reputation. 
Strategic expertise
Review and guide corporate strategy, major plans of action, risk policy, annual budgets and 
business plans, setting performance objectives, monitoring implementation and corporate 
performance, and overseeing major capital expenditures, acquisitions and divestments. 
Technology & Network
Significant knowledge of technology and network operation, anticipation of emerging 
technology trends and provide guidance for technical collaboration. 
Corporate Governance
Providing insights in best governance practices, protecting and enhancing stakeholders 
value, maintaining board and management accountability. 
Sustainability
Experience in leading the sustainability and environment, social and governance visions 
of organizations, to be able to integrate these into the strategy of the Company. 
Demonstrated strengths in developing talent, planning succession, driving change and 
long-term growth. 
Human Resource 
Development
General Management
Overall outlook on efficiency, profitability and management.
70


--- Page 78 ---
Directors’ Report &
Business Responsibility
Financial
Corporate
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
and Sustainability Report
Statements
Governance Report
Industry knowledge & 
Innovation
Financial Expertise
Risk Management
Legal Compliance
Sales and Marketing
Strategy
Technology & 
Networks
Corporate 
Governance
Sustainability
Human Resource 
Development
General Management
Mr. Ravinder Takkar










Mr. Kumar Mangalam Birla








Mr. Himanshu Kapania









Mr. Sushil Agarwal








Mr. Selcuk Karacay








Mr. Sunil Sood










Mr. Anjani Kumar Agrawal







Mr. Rajat Kumar Jain







Mr. Ashwani Windlass








Mr. Sunirmal Talukdar






Ms. Neena Gupta








Mr. Suresh Vaswani









A brief profile of the Directors are as under:
Mr. Ravinder Takkar holds a Bachelors degree in Science 
from Loyola Marymount University, USA in 1991. He has 
an overall work experience of over 33 years of which 30 
years is with Vodafone. Prior to his current role as the 
 
at the helm of the Aditya Birla Group (ABG), he has accelerated 
growth, built meritocracy and enhanced stakeholder value. 
In the process he has raised the ABGs turnover multifold. 
He has been the architect of over 60 acquisitions in India 
and globally, among the highest by any Indian multinational. 
Under his stewardship, the Aditya Birla Group enjoys a position 
of leadership in all the major sectors in which it operates- 
from cement to chemicals, metals to textiles and fashion to 
financial services and real estate to renewables. Over the years, 
 
Mr. Birla has built a highly successful meritocratic organisation, 
anchored by an extraordinary force of over 185,000 employees.
Non-Executive Chairman of the Company, Mr. Takkar was the 
Managing Director & CEO up till August 18, 2022. He has 
been with Vodafone Group since 1994 and brings a wealth 
of experience in telecom industry having worked in several 
leadership positions across Vodafone’s operating companies. 
He was also a CEO of Vodafone Romania for three years and 
CEO of Vodafone Partner Markets in London. Mr. Takkar has 
been involved in the Indian telecom industry since 2007 when 
Vodafone Group entered the Indian market. He has held a 
number of senior roles in Strategy and Business Development 
and he was CEO of the Enterprise business of Vodafone Group.
Mr. Kumar Mangalam Birla is the Chairman of Aditya Birla 
Group, which operates in 41 countries across six continents. 
He is a Chartered Accountant and holds an MBA degree from 
the London Business School. In the 30 years, that he has been 
Outside the Group, Mr. Birla has held several key positions 
on various regulatory and professional Boards. He was a 
Director on the Central Board of Directors of the Reserve 
Bank of India. As the Chairman of Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (SEBI) Committee on Corporate Governance, 
he framed the first-ever governance code for Corporate India. 
He was Chairman of the Advisory Committee constituted 
by the Ministry of Company Affairs and also served on The 
Prime Minister of India’s Advisory Council on Trade and 
71
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 79 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
Industry. Over the years, Mr. Birla has been conferred several 
prestigious awards. He was conferred the Padma Bhushan, 
India’s third highest civilian honour in 2023. He also received 
the All India Management Association’s coveted Business 
Leader of the Decade Awards in 2023. He was also the first 
Indian Industrialist to receive the TiE Global Entrepreneurship 
Award for Business Transformation in 2021. Mr. Birla is also 
the first Indian Industrialist to be conferred an Honorary
 
degree by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India. 
 
Limited, Grasim Industries Limited, Aditya Birla Capital 
Limited and Novel Jewels Limited. He is also a member of 
the Business Review Council, which is an institutionalized 
mechanism for bringing in wider managerial perspectives 
and leadership experiences into reviewing the development, 
growth and operations of the Aditya Birla Group’s businesses. 
He has been with the Aditya Birla Group since the beginning 
of his career in 1989 and has a unique distinction of working 
closely with the former Chairman Late Mr. Aditya Vikram Birla 
and current Chairman Mr. Kumar Mangalam Birla. He has 
worked closely with several businesses of the Aditya Birla 
Group and has richly contributed in many Restructurings, 
Mergers and Acquisitions and Fund Raising initiatives of the 
Aditya Birla Group with his widely acknowledged financial 
acumen and analytical skills. He is familiar with operations 
in most states in India and several countries abroad and is 
best known for his strong connections and relationship with 
the global investors and industry stalwarts.
Mr. Birla has been a recipient of the ABLF Global Asian 
Award in 2019. The Economic Times, has honoured him 
three times with the ‘Business Leader of the Year’ award, 
most recently in 2025 - making him the only industrialist to 
receive this distinction. In addition, he has received several 
awards and honors from leading institutions like EY, Forbes, 
CNBC, CNN News18, WEF etc. Mr. Birla is deeply engaged 
with Educational Institutions. He is the Chancellor of the Birla 
Institute of Technology & Science (BITS) with campuses 
in Pilani, Goa, Hyderabad, Dubai and Mumbai. He has also 
been the Chairman of India’s premier management institute 
- Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad and Indian 
Institute of Technology, Delhi. On the global arena, Mr. Birla 
is an Honorary Fellow of the London Business School.
Mr. Selcuk Karacay holds a Bachelor’s degree in law from 
the Istanbul University in Turkey and is a member of the 
Istanbul Bar Association. Mr. Karacay began his professional 
career as a lawyer and legal counsel in 1983 and has over 
four decades of experience. He has worked as the Chief 
Legal Officer and part of the management team of Vodafone 
Turkey since 2006. He is currently serving as the executive 
board member and consultant for Vodafone Turkey and is a 
Non-Executive Director on the Board of Directors of a number 
of Vodafone Turkey companies (including as the Chairman/
Deputy Chairman on the Board of certain companies). He 
also acted as the member of Board of Directors and Audit 
Committee of Vodafone Egypt, Legal HUB Leader of Vodafone 
Turkey Egypt Qatar, Vodafone Group Legal Leadership Team 
Member, Compliance Leadership Team Member and AMAP 
Region Crisis Committee Legal Representative. Prior to 
Vodafone, he has also been the Chief Legal Counsel of many 
organizations, including Site Bank, Ege Çelik Group & Liman 
Hizmetleri ve Nakliyecilik A.S. & Surmeli Group and Star Media 
Group Companies.
Mr. Himanshu Kapania an alumnus of IIM, Bangalore and 
Birla Institute of Technology, Mesra, was former Managing 
Director (2011 to 2018) of erstwhile Idea Cellular Limited, 
renamed as Vodafone Idea Limited after merger with Vodafone 
India Limited, is presently the Non-Executive Director on the 
Board of the Company. Mr. Kapania is leading the new foray 
of Grasim into Decorative Paint business as business head 
with an initial investment of ` 10,000 crore. He is also the 
business head of ‘Birla White’ and is on the Board of ‘RAK’ 
company for White Cement & Construction Materials, UAE. 
Recently, he has been appointed as the Managing Director 
of Grasim Industries Limited with effect from April 1, 2025. 
He has over 39 years of work experience in Leadership, 
Technology, Operations, Sales & Marketing, Regulation & 
Policy Advocacy, etc., with deep understanding of Indian 
consumers, media and society across Automobile, Consumer 
Durables, Office Automation, Telecom, Construction Sector 
& Digital Services industries. He is the current Chairman of 
FICCI Council on ‘Telecom, Electronics and Digital Economy’ 
and FICCI Task Force on ‘Privacy and Data Security’.
Mr. Sushil Agarwal is a Chartered Accountant and holds a 
Master’s degree in Commerce. He is the Group Chief Financial 
Officer of Aditya Birla Group and Director of Aditya Birla 
Management Corporation Private Limited. He also serves as 
a Non-Executive Director on the Board of Hindalco Industries 
Mr. Sunil Sood is an alumnus of Harvard Business School, 
and a distinguished alumni awardee of Indian Institute of 
Management, Calcutta and Indian Institute of Technology, 
Delhi. He started his telecom journey with Vodafone in 2000 
and over the years has held several senior positions including 
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer for Vodafone 
India Ltd. (April 2015 – August 2018). He was the Group 
Commercial Director, AMAP and Group M-Pesa & Financial 
Services Director of Vodafone Plc from September 2018 to 
September 2020. He began his career in the FMCG industry 
72


--- Page 80 ---
Directors’ Report &
Business Responsibility
Financial
Corporate
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
and Sustainability Report
Statements
Governance Report
with Lakme in various roles across India and also did roles 
in other emerging markets in Africa and South East Asia, 
including the role of CEO of PepsiCo in Bangladesh. His career 
and experience gained in FMCG, Telecommunications & 
 
Mr. Ashwani Windlass is a gold medalist in B. Com from 
Punjab University, Chandigarh where he also obtained a 
Graduation in Journalism (B.J.). He holds an MBA from Faculty 
of Management Studies, University of Delhi. He is a leading 
strategy, telecom and technology professional, currently 
engaged in advisory/mentoring roles at the Board/CEO level, 
after over four decades of wide management experience. 
 
Fin-Tech extends over 39 years. He was the former Chairman 
of Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI), the industry 
body for GSM telecom operators in India as well as the former 
Chairman of the British Business Group (BBG) Mumbai, a 
confederation of organizations with interests in India & 
UK and a member of several prestigious industry bodies/ 
associations/public policy forums.
Mr. Windlass has been the Founder Jt. Managing Director of 
Max India Limited, Founder Managing Director of Hutchison 
Max Telecom (since rechristened as Vodafone Idea Limited) 
and Vice Chairman & Managing Director of Reliance Telecom 
Limited. Apart from being Chairman of Bata India Limited, 
he also serves on the Boards of Hitachi MGRM Net Limited, 
 
HT Media Limited & Jubilant Foodworks Limited among others.
Mr. Sunirmal Talukdar is a Chartered Accountant and B.Sc. 
(Bachelor of Science) from St. Xavier’s College, Calcutta 
University. He has over three decades of rich & comprehensive 
experience backed by benchmark competencies in the areas 
of Strategic & Tactical Planning, Mergers & Acquisitions, 
Corporate Governance, Project Evaluation & Financing, Equity 
& Debt Syndication, Internal Control / Audit Compliance, 
Direct, Indirect & International Taxation, Organizational 
Restructuring etc. He retired as Group Executive President 
and Chief Financial Officer of Hindalco Industries Limited 
in December 2011. He has also worked with Haldia 
Petrochemicals Limited as CFO for two years.
Mr. Anjani Kumar Agrawal is a Chartered Accountant, 
CIA and is an alumni of INSEAD and Cambridge Institute 
for Sustainability Leadership. He has over 44 years of 
professional experience in leading global consulting firms, 
which includes 35 years with Ernst & Young (EY) where he was 
a partner for 26 years. He set up the Risk Advisory practice 
of the firm and led it for several years. His area of expertise 
includes governance, risk & controls, corporate governance, 
board effectiveness, business transformation, strategic risk 
management, performance improvement and sustainability 
reporting. He had been a global sector leader for the firm. 
He has also worked with the Union Government and NITI 
Aayog on several policy matters. He is a Fellow member of 
Institute of Directors and guest speaker at Management 
Institutes. He also serves as Independent Director on the 
Boards of Ultratech Cement Limited, Hindalco Industries 
Limited, Emami Ltd., Aditya Birla Sunlife Trustee Private 
Ltd., Welspun Corp Limited, Evonith Value Steels Limited and 
Evonith Metallics Limited.
Ms. Neena Gupta is a law graduate from Delhi University 
and has a management degree in Marketing and HR from 
Fore School of Management, Delhi. She also holds B.A. 
degree in History from Delhi University. She has worked as 
an Executive Director (Strategy and M&A) and is currently 
Group General Counsel with lnterGlobe Enterprises United. 
Prior to lnterGlobe, she was a partner with law firm J. Sagar & 
Associates. She has vast experience in the field of strategic 
sale and divestments, capital market transactions, mergers 
and acquisitions and legal and international taxation.
Mr. Rajat Kumar Jain is an alumnus of IIT-Delhi and 
IIM Ahmedabad is a corporate leader turned into startup 
enthusiast. He is a Founder Director of PadUp Ventures, a 
Knowledge and Mentoring Platform, focusing on providing 
deep mentoring and incubation services to early stage tech 
startups as well as a knowledge partner to other incubators in 
India. After a 30+ years career in Corporate India in leadership 
roles, Mr. Jain is now a Non-Executive Independent Director 
on several Boards. He is also a trustee on the Board of the 
 
well-known Make a wish Foundation, as well as Braj 
Foundation, an NGO focused on environment and water 
conservation and an Advisor to the E&H Foundation, working 
for the education and health of underprivileged kids in Uttar 
Pradesh. In his corporate career, he has worked in the FMCG, 
media & entertainment, technology and telecom sectors in 
India, both at young stage companies and MNCs like Unilever, 
Sony, Walt Disney and Xerox.
Mr. Suresh Vaswani holds a Bachelor of Technology 
(Honours) degree in Metallurgical Engineering from Indian 
Institute of Technology, Kharagpur and a Post Graduate 
Diploma in Management from the Indian Institute of 
Management, Ahmedabad. He is Senior Director and 
Operating Partner at Everstone Capital, and Board member 
of Tech/SAAS companies Innoveo AG Switzerland. He also 
serves as an Independent Director on the Board of Mastek 
Limited and ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited. 
He has several years of experience in IT/IT leveraged/Tech 
business and has served as President of Dell Services globally, 
Chairman of Dell India, Co-CEO of Wipro IT Business and as 
General Manager at IBM Global Technology Services.
73
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 81 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
Board Meetings and Procedure
The draft minutes of each Board/Committee meetings are 
circulated to all Directors for their comments within 15 days 
of the meeting. The Company Secretary, after incorporating 
comments, received if any, from the Directors, records the 
minutes of each Board/Committee meeting within 30 days 
from conclusion of the meeting. The important decisions 
taken at the Board/Committee meetings are communicated 
to the concerned departments promptly.
The tentative annual calendar of meetings is determined at the 
beginning of each year. The Board meets at regular intervals 
to discuss and decide on results, operations, business policy 
and strategy apart from other Board businesses. In case 
of urgent business exigencies some resolution(s) are also 
passed by circulation, as permitted by law, which is noted 
in the subsequent Board Meeting. Time gap between two 
consecutive meetings does not exceed 120 days.
During the Financial Year 2024-25, the Board met thirteen 
times i.e. on April 4, 2024, April 6, 2024, April 11, 2024, 
April 22, 2024, May 16, 2024, June 13, 2024, July 29, 2024, 
August 12, 2024, August 27, 2024, November 13, 2024, 
December 9, 2024, February 11, 2025 and March 31, 2025. 
The intervening gap between any two Board Meetings did 
not exceed 120 days.
The Company Secretary in consultation with the Chairman 
and the Chief Executive Officer prepares the detailed 
agenda for the meetings. All the agenda items are backed 
by comprehensive agenda notes and relevant supporting 
papers containing all the vital information, so as to enable 
the Directors to have focused discussion at the meeting and 
take informed decisions.
The details of attendance of Directors at the Board Meetings 
and at the last Annual General Meeting (i.e. Annual General 
Meeting for Financial Year 2024-25 was held on August 28, 
2024) are as under:
Attended 
Name of Director
No. of Board Meetings 
held during the tenure
Last AGM 
(Yes/No)
Held
Attended
Mr. Ravinder Takkar
13
12
Yes 
Mr. Arun Adhikari1
9
8
Yes 
Mr. Himanshu Kapania
13
12
No
Ms. Neena Gupta
13
8
No
Mr. Krishnan Ramachandran2
11
11
Yes 
Mr. Suresh Vaswani
13
13
Yes 
Mr. Ashwani Windlass
13
13
Yes 
Mr. Sunil Sood
13
11
No
Mr. Sushil Agarwal
13
9
Yes 
Mr. Kumar Mangalam Birla
13
2
No
Mr. Sateesh Kamath3
9
5
No
Mr. Anjani Kumar Agrawal
13
13
Yes 
Mr. Rajat Kumar Jain4
4
4
NA
Mr. Selcuk Karacay5 
4
4
NA
Mr. Sunirmal Talukdar6
2
2
NA
1Ceased to be Director of the Company w.e.f. August 30, 2024
2Ceased to be Director of the Company w.e.f. December 26,2024
3Resigned from the Board of the Company w.e.f. October 30, 2024
4Appointed on the Board of the Company w.e.f. August 31, 2024
5Appointed on the Board of the Company w.e.f. October 30, 2024
6Appointed on the Board of the Company w.e.f. December 27, 2024
The notice of Board/Committee Meetings is given well in 
advance to all the Directors. The agenda and agenda notes 
are circulated to all the Directors well in advance. In case of 
sensitive agenda matters, where it is not practical to circulate 
the relevant information as part of the agenda papers, the 
same is tabled at the meeting. In special and exceptional 
circumstances, additional or supplementary agenda items 
are taken-up for discussion with the permission of the 
Chairman. To deliberate on urgent and significant matters, 
meetings were also convened at short notice with the 
requisite consent of all Directors, as permitted under the 
applicable laws. The members of the Board or Committees 
are free to suggest any item to be included in the agenda, 
in addition to exercising their right to bring up matters for 
discussion at the meeting with permission of the Chairman. 
The senior management personnel are invited to the Board/ 
Committee Meetings to apprise and update the members on 
the items being discussed at the meeting. All the relevant 
information as enumerated in Part A of Schedule II of the 
Listing Regulations is placed before the Board and the Board 
in particular reviews and approves corporate strategies, 
business plan, annual budget, capital expenditure etc. The 
Board periodically reviews the compliance status of all the 
applicable laws and is regularly updated on various legal 
and regulatory developments involving the Company. The 
Board Agenda includes an Action Taken Report comprising 
of actions emanating from the Board Meetings and status 
updates thereof. The Members of the Board have complete 
freedom to express their opinion and have unfettered and 
complete access to information in the Company. All the 
decisions are taken after detailed deliberations by the Board 
Members at the meetings.
74


--- Page 82 ---
Directors’ Report &
Business Responsibility
Financial
Corporate
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
and Sustainability Report
Statements
Governance Report
Performance Evaluation of Board
Induction and Familiarization Program for Board 
Members
Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 
and Listing Regulations, a formal evaluation framework 
is in place for evaluating the performance of the Board, 
the Committees thereof, individual Directors (including 
Independent Directors) and the Chairman of the Board. The 
evaluation was done based on the criteria which includes, 
amongst others, providing strategic perspective, attendance 
and preparedness for the meetings, contribution at 
meetings, effective decision making ability and independent 
judgement etc. The Independent Directors expressed their 
satisfaction on the overall performance of the Directors and 
the Board as a whole. It was also noted that the Committees 
are functioning well and besides the Committee’s terms of 
reference as mandated by law, important issues are brought 
up and discussed in the Committee meetings.
A formal letter of appointment together with the Induction 
kit is provided to the Independent Directors, at the time of 
their appointment, setting out their role, functions, duties 
and responsibilities. The criteria, terms and conditions for 
appointment of Independent Directors of the Company 
is placed on the website https://www.myvi.in/investors/
corporate-goverance. The Directors are familiarized with 
the Company’s business and operations and interactions are 
held between the Directors and Senior Management of the 
Company. Directors are familiarized with the organizational 
set-up, functioning of various departments, internal control 
processes and relevant information pertaining to the 
Company. Apart from the above, periodic presentations 
are also made at the Board/Committee meetings to 
familiarize the Directors with the Company’s strategy, 
business performance, business environment, regulatory
 
Code of Conduct for Board Members and Senior 
Management
framework, operations review, risk management and other 
related matters.
The details of familiarization programs are posted on the 
website of the Company viz. https://www.myvi.in/investors/
corporate-goverance.
Meeting of Independent Directors
The Board of Directors have laid down the Code of Conduct 
for all the Board Members (incorporating, inter-alia, duties of 
Independent Directors) and Senior Management Executives 
of the Company, which is also uploaded on the website of 
the Company https://www.myvi.in/investors/corporate-
goverance. The Code is derived from three inter-linked 
fundamental principles, viz. good corporate governance, 
good corporate citizenship and exemplary personal conduct. 
Code of Conduct provides guidance and support for ethical 
conduct of the business.
Declaration affirming compliance of Code of Conduct 
The Independent Directors met twice in Financial Year 
2024-25 on May 16, 2024 and March 27, 2025 without 
the presence of Non-Independent Directors and the 
management, in order to form a fair and independent 
judgement on all matters related to functioning of the Board, 
senior management and the Company as a whole. At these 
meetings, the Independent Directors discuss various matters 
including Company’s performance and Company’s strategy; 
key strategic risks faced by the Company; succession 
planning; governance and compliance; performance of 
 
The Company has received confirmations from all the 
Board members as well as Senior Management Executives 
regarding compliance of the Code of Conduct during the 
year under review.
A declaration signed by the Chief Executive Officer affirming 
the compliance with the Code of Conduct by the Board 
Members and Senior Management Personnel of the 
Company for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025 is 
attached and forms part of this Report.
2.	 COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
Non-Independent Directors, the Board as a whole, the 
Chairman and the quality, content and timely flow of 
information between the Company’s management and the 
Board. In addition to these formal meetings, interactions 
outside the Board Meetings also take place between the 
Chairman and Independent Directors / Lead Independent 
Director. The Lead Independent Director updates the Board 
about the outcome/ proceedings of the meetings and action, 
if any, required to be taken by the Company.
A Committee comprising of all Independent Directors 
constituted specifically for the purpose of Further Public 
Offer (FPO) met on April 12, 2024 for approving the inclusion 
of recommendation of the aforesaid Commitee in the Price 
Band advertisement for the FPO. 
The Board committees play a vital role in improving Board 
effectiveness and have been constituted to deal where more 
focused and extensive discussions are required/activities 
as mandated by applicable regulation. Some of the Board 
functions are performed through specially constituted Board 
75
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 83 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
3.	
Approval of payment to statutory auditors for any other 
services rendered by statutory auditors.
Committees comprising of Non-Executive and Independent 
Directors. Board Committees ensures focused discussion 
and expedient resolution of diverse matters.
As of March 31, 2025, the Board has the following 
Committee(s) constituted for better and focused attention 
on various affairs of the Company: 
4.	
Reviewing with the management, the annual financial 
statements and auditor’s report thereon before 
submission to the board for approval, with particular 
reference to: 
(a)	 Audit Committee 
(b)	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
(c)	 Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee 
	
a.	
Matters required to be included in the Director’s 
Responsibility Statement to be included in the 
Board’s report in terms of clause (c) of sub-section 
3 of section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013; 
(d)	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 
(e)	 Risk Management Committee 
	
b.	
Changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices 
and reasons for the same; 
(f)	 Capital Raising Committee 
(g)	 Finance Committee
	
c.	
Major accounting entries involving estimates based 
on the exercise of judgment by management; 
	
d.	
Significant adjustments made in the financial 
statements arising out of audit findings; 
	
e.	
Compliance with listing and other legal requirements 
relating to financial statements; 
	
f.	
Disclosure of any related party transactions; 
All the Committees have formally established terms 
of references/charter. The Chairman of the respective 
Committee informs the Board about the summary of the 
discussions held in the Committee Meetings. The Minutes 
of the Committee Meetings are noted by the Board. The 
Board Committees can request special invitees to join the 
meeting, as appropriate.
	
g.	
Qualifications in the draft audit report.
The role and composition of the aforesaid Committees, 
including the number of meetings held and the related 
attendance of the members are given below:
5.	
Reviewing, with the management, the quarterly financial 
statements before submission to the Board for approval. 
A.	 Audit Committee
6.	
The Audit Committee shall review the financial 
statements, in particular, the investments made by the 
unlisted subsidiary company.
The Company has an Audit Committee at the Board level 
with power and role that are in accordance with the Listing 
Regulations and the Companies Act, 2013. The Audit 
Committee oversees the accounting, auditing and overall 
financial reporting process of the Company. The Audit 
Committee acts as a link between the Management, the 
Statutory Auditors, Internal Auditors and the Board of Directors 
to oversee the financial reporting process of the Company. 
The Committee is governed by a Charter which is in line with 
the regulatory requirements mandated by the Companies 
Act, 2013 and Regulation 18 of the Listing Regulations.
7.	
Reviewing, with the management, the statement of 
uses/application of funds raised through an issue 
(Public Issue, Rights Issue, Preferential Issue etc.), the 
statement of funds utilized for purposes other than 
those stated in the offer document/prospectus/notice 
and the report submitted by the monitoring agency 
monitoring the utilization of proceeds of a Public or 
Rights Issue and making appropriate recommendations 
to the Board to take steps in this matter. 
Terms of reference
8.	
Review and monitor the auditor’s independence and 
performance and effectiveness of audit process. 
The broad terms of reference adopted by the Audit 
Committee includes the following: 
9.	
Approval or any subsequent modification of transactions 
of the Company with related parties. 
10.	 Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments. 
1.	
Oversight of the Company’s financial reporting process 
and the disclosure of its financial information to ensure 
that the financial statement is correct, sufficient and 
credible. 
11.	 Reviewing the utilization of loans and/or advances 
2.	
Recommendation for appointment, remuneration and 
terms of appointment of auditors of the Company. 
from/ investment by the Holding Company in the 
subsidiary exceeding ` 1,000 Mn or 10% of the asset 
76


--- Page 84 ---
Directors’ Report &
Business Responsibility
Financial
Corporate
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
and Sustainability Report
Statements
Governance Report
23.	 Carrying out any other function as is mentioned in the 
terms of reference of the Audit Committee. 
size of the subsidiary, whichever is lower including 
existing loans/advances/investments. 
24.	 To review: 
12.	 Valuation of undertakings or assets of the Company, 
wherever it is necessary. 
	
a.	
Management Discussion and Analysis of financial 
condition and results of operations; 
13.	 Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk 
management systems. 
14.	 Reviewing, with the management, performance of 
	
b.	
Statement of significant related party transactions 
(as defined by the Audit Committee), submitted by 
management; 
statutory and internal auditors, adequacy of the internal 
control systems. 
15.	 Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, 
	
c.	
Management letters/letters of internal control 
weaknesses issued by the Statutory Auditors, if 
any; 
	
d.	
Internal audit reports relating to internal control 
weaknesses; and
if any, including the structure of the internal audit 
department, staffing and seniority of the official heading 
the department, reporting structure coverage and 
frequency of internal audit. 
	
e.	
The appointment, removal and terms of 
remuneration of the Chief Internal Auditor.
16.	 Discussion with internal auditors of any significant 
findings and follow-up thereon. 
17.	 Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations 
by the internal auditors into matters where there is 
suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal 
control systems of a material nature and reporting the 
matter to the Board. 
18.	 Discussion with statutory auditors before the audit 
commences, about the nature and scope of audit as 
well as post-audit discussion to ascertain any area of 
concern. 
In addition to reviewing financial results on quarterly basis, 
Audit Committee Meetings are also convened for reviewing 
Internal Audit reports pertaining to various functions and 
also for reviewing the implementation of Internal Financial 
Control framework. The Company has appropriate internal 
control systems for business processes, covering operations, 
financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations. Regular internal audits and management reviews 
ensure that the responsibilities are executed effectively. 
The Audit Committee actively reviews the adequacy and 
effectiveness of internal control systems and suggests 
improvements for strengthening them, as appropriate.
19.	 To look into the reasons for substantial defaults in 
the payment to the depositors, debenture holders, 
shareholders (in case of non-payment of declared 
dividends) and creditors. 
20.	 To review the functioning of the Whistle Blower 
mechanism. 
21.	 Approval of appointment of Chief Financial Officer 
 
The Committee also oversees the performance of the 
internal and statutory auditors and also recommends their 
appointment and remuneration to the Board. Information as 
detailed in Part C of Schedule II of the Listing Regulations, 
is mandatorily being reviewed by the Audit Committee. The 
minutes of the Audit Committee Meetings forms part of 
the Board Agenda. The Chairman of the Audit Committee 
Meeting briefs the Board on the discussions held during 
Audit Committee Meeting.
Composition, Meetings and Attendance
(i.e. the Whole Time Finance Director or any other 
person heading the finance function or discharging that 
function) after assessing the qualifications, experience 
and background etc. of the candidate. 
22.	 Review compliance with the provisions of Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) Regulations, 2015 as may be amended from 
time to time at least once in a financial year and verify 
that systems for internal control are adequate and are 
operating effectively. 
The composition of the Audit Committee meets the 
requirements of Section 177 of the Companies Act, 2013 
and Regulation 18 of the Listing Regulations. As on March 
31, 2025, the Audit Committee comprises of six members, 
of which four members, including the Chairman, are 
Independent Directors and two members are Non-Executive 
Directors. All the members of the Audit Committee possess 
77
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 85 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
requisite accounting and financial management expertise. 
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the 
Committee. 
to become Directors and persons who may be appointed 
at senior management levels and also devising a policy on 
remuneration of Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and 
other senior employees. The Committee also monitors 
and administers the Company’s Employee Stock Option 
Scheme(s). The Nomination & Remuneration Committee’s 
constitution and terms of reference are in compliance with 
the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 
19 and Part D of the Schedule II of the Listing Regulations.
Terms of reference
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the 
Company are permanent invitees to the Audit Committee 
Meetings. Representatives of the Statutory Auditors and 
Internal Auditors of the Company are also invited to the 
Audit Committee Meetings. Additionally, other Senior 
Management Personnel are also invited to present reports on 
the respective functions that are discussed at the meetings 
from time to time. The Cost Auditors attend the meeting 
when Cost Audit Report is discussed.
The broad terms of reference adopted by the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee includes the following: 
1.	
Formulating and recommending to the board of 
directors, the Company’s policies relating to the 
remuneration of the Directors, KMPs and other 
employees; 
During the Financial Year 2024-25, eight meetings of the 
Audit Committee were held on April 4, 2024, April 9, 2024, 
May 16, 2024, August 12, 2024, September 27, 2024, 
November 13, 2024, February 11, 2025 and March 24, 
2025. The intervening gap between two meetings did not 
exceed 120 days.
2.	
Criteria for determining the qualifications, positive 
attributes and independence of current and proposed 
Directors;
Name of Director
Category
No. of 
No. of 
Meetings 
held during 
Meetings 
attended
the tenure
Independent
8
8
3.	
Ensure that the level and composition of remuneration 
is reasonable and sufficient to attract, retain and 
motivate Directors and Senior Management of the 
quality required to run the Company successfully; 
Mr. Ashwani Windlass 
(Chairman)
Mr. Anjani Kumar Agrawal
Independent
8
8
4.	
Ensure the relationship of remuneration to performance 
is clear and meets appropriate performance benchmarks; 
Mr. Krishnan Ramachandran1
Independent
6
6
Mr. Suresh Vaswani
Independent
8
8
Mr. Sunil Sood
Non-Executive
8
8
Mr. Himanshu Kapania
Non-Executive
8
8
5.	
The remuneration provided to Directors and Senior 
Management includes a balance between fixed 
and incentive pay reflecting short and long term 
performance objectives appropriate to the working of 
the Company and its goals; 
Mr. Sunirmal Talukdar2
Independent
2
2
1 Ceased to be Director of the Company w.e.f. December 26, 2024
2 Appointed as an Independent Director w.e.f. December 27, 2024
6.	
Formulate appropriate policies, institute processes 
which enable the identification of individuals who 
are qualified to become Directors and who may be 
appointed in senior management and recommend to 
the Board of Directors their appointment and removal 
from time to time;
7.	
Review and implement succession and development 
plans for Managing Director, Executive Directors and 
Senior Management; 
All the recommendations made by the Audit Committee were 
accepted by the Board. During the year under review, the 
composition of the Committee was changed once. Pursuant 
to cessation of Mr. Krishnan Ramachandran from the Board 
of the Company, Mr. Sunirmal Talukdar was appointed in his 
place as a Member of the Committee.
8.	
Devise a policy on Board diversity; 
B.	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee
9.	
Formulate the criteria for determining qualifications, 
positive attributes and independence of Directors;
10.	 Establish evaluation criteria and conduct the process of 
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee has been 
entrusted with role of formulating criteria for determining 
the qualifications, positive attributes and independence of 
the Directors as well as identifying persons who are qualified 
performance evaluation of each Director in a structured 
manner; 
78


--- Page 86 ---
Directors’ Report &
Business Responsibility
Financial
Corporate
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
and Sustainability Report
Statements
Governance Report
11.	 Establish evaluation criteria of Board and Board 
Committees;
12.	 Review and make recommendations to the Board with 
respect to any incentive based compensation and 
equity based plans that are subject to the Board and 
Shareholders approval (including broad-based plans);
All the recommendations made by the Committee were 
accepted by the Board. During the year under review, the 
composition of the Committee was changed once. Pursuant 
to cessation of Mr. Arun Adhikari from the Board of the 
Company, Mr. Rajat Kumar Jain was appointed in his place 
as a member of the Committee.
13.	 Review and discuss with management the disclosures 
required to be included in the Directors’ Report as 
specified in the act and rules thereunder; and
Performance Evaluation Criteria for Independent 
Directors
14.	 To supervise and monitor the process of issuance/ 
grant/ vesting/ cancellation of ESOPs and such other 
instruments as may be decided to be granted to the 
employees of the Company/ Subsidiary Company, from 
time to time, as per the provisions of the applicable 
laws, more particularly in terms of Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee 
Benefits) Regulations, 2021.
Composition, Meetings and Attendance 
The evaluation framework for assessing the performance 
of Directors of the Company comprises of contributions at 
the meetings, strategic perspectives or inputs regarding the 
growth or performance of the Company, among others. The 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee have laid down 
the manner in which formal evaluation of the performance 
of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors has to 
be made. The Board has carried out the annual performance 
evaluation of its own performance, Board Committees 
and Individual Directors pursuant to the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 17(10) of Listing 
Regulations.
Nomination & Remuneration Policy
The composition of the Committee meets the requirements 
of Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 
19 of the Listing Regulations. As on March 31, 2025, 
the Committee comprises of six members of which four 
members, including the Chairman are Independent Directors 
and two members are Non-Executive Directors. The 
Company Secretary acts as a Secretary to the Committee. 
During the Financial Year 2024-25, six meetings of the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee were held on 
May 16, 2024, July 29, 2024, August 12, 2024, August 27, 
2024, November 13, 2024 and February 11, 2025.
The Board has, on the recommendation of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee framed a policy on appointment 
and remuneration of Directors and Senior Management 
Employees. The Company’s remuneration policy is directed 
towards rewarding performance based on periodic review of 
the achievements. 
The remuneration policy is available on the website of the 
Company https://www.myvi.in/investors/corporate-goverance.
The composition of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee and the attendance of the members at the 
meetings held during the Financial Year 2024-25 are as under:
Name of Director
Category
No. of 
No. of 
Remuneration of Directors 
Meetings 
Meetings 
(i)	 Remuneration to the Executive Directors
held during 
attended
the tenure
Mr. Anjani Kumar Agrawal 
Independent
6
6
(Chairman)
Mr. Arun Adhikari1
Independent
4
4
Ms. Neena Gupta
Independent
6
4
Mr. Suresh Vaswani
Independent
6
6
Mr. Himanshu Kapania
Non-Executive
6
5
The remuneration package of Executive Directors including 
the Chief Executive Officer and the senior management team 
is determined by the Nomination & Remuneration Committee, 
which is in accordance with the remuneration policy of the 
Company. A fair portion of the remuneration is linked to the 
Company’s performance, thereby creating a strong alignment 
of interest with shareholders. 
Mr. Sunil Sood
Non-Executive
6
6
Mr. Rajat Kumar Jain2
Independent 
2
2
1 Ceased w.e.f. August 30, 2024
2 Appointed w.e.f. August 31, 2024
The recommendations of the Committee are considered 
and approved by the Board, subject to the approval of the 
members of the Company, wherever necessary.
79
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 87 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
I.	
Details of the Managerial Remuneration paid to the 
Executive Directors during Financial Year 2024-25.
he was the Managing Director of the Company. During the 
year under review, he had exercised 44,444 Restricted Stock 
Units under ESOS -2013 and allotted 44,444 equity shares 
in lieu thereof on July 29, 2024.
As there are no Executive Directors, the details of the 
managerial remuneration paid to the Executive Directors are 
not applicable.
II. 	 Details of Stock Options granted/exercised to/
by the Executive Directors: 
There were no pecuniary relationships/transactions between 
the Company and the Non-Executive Directors/Independent 
Directors during the year, apart from sitting fees and those 
mentioned above. 
As there are no Executive Directors, the details of Stock 
Options granted / exercised are not applicable.
(iii)  Details of Shareholding of Non-Executive Directors
(ii)	 Remuneration to Non-Executive/Independent 
Directors
The details of shareholding of Directors as on March 31, 
2025 are as under:
Name of Director
No. of Equity Shares#
Only Independent Directors are paid remuneration by way of 
sitting fees, which is ` 1,00,000/- per Board Meeting and 
 
Mr. Himanshu Kapania
27,97,259
Mr. Sunil Sood 
7,217
Mr. Sushil Agarwal 
1,48,044
Mr. Kumar Mangalam Birla
1,94,64,906
Mr. Sunirmal Talukdar
8,223
#Shares held singly or as a first shareholder are only considered.
` 50,000/- per Committee Meeting attended by them, which 
is well within the limits prescribed under Companies Act, 
2013 (‘the Act’). The Commission/Remuneration payable 
to all the Non-Executive Directors (including Independent 
Directors) is decided by the Board of Directors on the basis 
of recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee, subject to the overall approval by the members 
of the Company. In view of Net loss incurred by the Company 
for Financial Year ended March 31, 2025, no Commission 
has been approved by the Board for Financial Year 2024-25.
C.	 Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee 
Non-Executive Directors (including Independent Directors) 
are also entitled to reimbursement of expenses incurred in 
performance of the duties as Directors and Members of the 
Committees. 
The details of the sitting fees paid to Independent Directors 
for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025 are as follows:
The Company has in place a Stakeholders’ Relationship 
Committee which look into various aspects of interest of 
shareholders, debenture holders and other security holders. 
The Committee monitors redressal of complaints of 
shareholders, debenture holders and other security holders 
relating to transfer/transmission of shares, non-receipt of 
annual report, dividend payment, issue of duplicate share 
certificates and other related complaints. In addition, 
 
Name of Independent Director
Sitting Fees paid for  
FY 2024-25 (in `)
the Committee also monitors other issues including 
 
Mr. Anjani Kumar Agrawal
26,00,000
Mr. Arun Adhikari
11,00,000
Mr. Ashwani Windlass
24,00,000
status of Dematerialisation/ Rematerialisation of shares 
issued by the Company. The role of the Committee also 
includes evaluating performance and service standards in 
respect of services rendered by the Registrar and Share 
Transfer Agent.
Mr. Krishnan Ramachandran
15,00,000
Composition, Meetings and Attendance 
Ms. Neena Gupta
10,50,000
Mr. Suresh Vaswani
20,50,000
Mr. Rajat Kumar Jain
6,00,000
Mr. Sunirmal Talukdar
3,00,000
The composition of Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee 
is in conformity with the provisions of Companies Act, 2013 
and Regulation 20 of the Listing Regulations. As on March 
31, 2025, the Committee comprises of four members 
namely, Mr. Himanshu Kapania (Non-Executive) as Chairman, 
Ms. Neena Gupta (Independent), Mr. Ravinder Takkar 
 
Mr. Himanshu Kapania, Non-Executive and Non-Independent 
Director of the Company had been granted certain Stock 
Options Restricted Stock Units under ESOS Schemes while 
(Non-Executive), and Mr. Sushil Agarwal (Non-Executive) as 
the members. The Company Secretary acts as a Secretary
 
80


--- Page 88 ---
Directors’ Report &
Business Responsibility
Financial
Corporate
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
and Sustainability Report
Statements
Governance Report
Online Dispute Resolution
to the Committee. During the Financial Year 2024-25, the 
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee met once on March 
25, 2025, which was attended by all the members of the 
Committee except Mr. Sushil Agarwal.
Compliance Officer 
Mr. Pankaj Kapdeo, Company Secretary, acts as the 
Compliance Officer of the Company. The Compliance 
Officer briefs the Committee on the grievances/queries 
of the investors and the steps taken by the Company for 
redressing their grievances. He is responsible for complying 
with the provisions of the Listing Regulations, requirements 
of securities laws and SEBI Insider Trading Regulations. The 
Compliance Officer can be contacted at: 
SEBI by circular no. SEBI/ HO/ OIAE/OIAE_IAD-1/ P/ CIR/ 
2023/ 131 dated July 31, 2023 has established a common 
Online Dispute Resolution Portal (“ODR Portal”) for investors 
for online conciliation and arbitration of disputes relating 
to securities. This is in addition to the existing system viz. 
SCORES, where investors initially lodge their complaints / 
grievances against the Company. The SMART ODR Portal 
is an approach to help investors access efficient dispute 
resolution online. In case the investor is not satisfied with 
the resolution provided by the Company / RTA / SCORES 
then the Online Dispute Resolution process may be initiated 
through the ODR Portal at https://smartodr.in/login. The 
link to the ODR Portal is also displayed on the Company’s 
website: https://www.myvi.in/investors/investors-support.
During the year, out of the aforementioned 2,323 complaints, 
3 complaints were filed on the SEBI SMART ODR Portal 
of which 1 complaint underwent a complete conciliation 
process, and after hearing the parties, Conciliation Order 
was passed successfully.
Vodafone Idea Limited 
Birla Centurion, 10th Floor, 
Century Mills Compound, 
Pandurang Budhkar Marg, 
Worli, Mumbai – 400 030 
Tel: +91-9594003434 
Fax: +91-22-26527080 
Email: shs@vodafoneidea.com 
Investor Grievances Redressal Status
As mentioned above, for effective use of the ODR process, 
shareholders are requested to initiate the Smart ODR 
process as the last resort after exhausting all available 
options for grievance redressal. The ODR Mechanism serves 
as a platform for resolution of long pending disputes, which 
are otherwise difficult to be taken to a logical end.
D.	 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee 
During the Financial Year 2024-25, spurt in complaints was 
due to Further Public Offer (FPO), which was undertaken by 
the Company in April 2024 and the nature of complaints 
were non-receipt of shares / non-receipt of refund. The other 
queries received by the Company were general in nature, 
which included issues relating to non-receipt of Annual 
Report, claims for unclaimed dividend/ shares which were 
transferred to IEPF and others, which were resolved to the 
satisfaction of the shareholders. There were no complaints 
pending as on April 1, 2024 and as on March 31, 2025. 
The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee 
is constituted in accordance with Section 135 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and applicable rules thereto. The CSR 
Committee evaluates and recommends to the Board the 
CSR activities to be undertaken and amount to be spent on 
CSR activities. The CSR Committee also monitors the CSR 
policy from time to time. 
The status of Investors’ Complaints as on March 31, 2025, 
is as follows:
As on March 31, 2025, the Committee comprised of 
four members, with majority Independent Directors. 
 
No. of complaints as on April 1, 2024
0
2,323
No. of complaints received during the Financial 
Year 2024-25  
No. of complaints resolved upto March 31, 2025
2,323
No. of complaints pending as on March 31, 2025
0
To redress investor grievances, the Company has a dedicated 
email ID shs@vodafoneidea.com to which investors may 
send complaints.
Ms. Neena Gupta (Independent Director) is the Chairperson 
of the Committee, Mr. Sunirmal Talukdar (Independent 
Director), Mr. Rajat Kumar Jain (Independent Director) and 
Mr. Ravinder Takkar (Non-Executive Director) are other 
members of the Committee. The Company Secretary acts 
as the Secretary to the Committee. During the Financial 
Year 2024-25, the Committee met only once on May 16, 
2024, which was attended by three members, other than 
Ms. Neena Gupta who could not attend the same. During the 
81
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 89 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
During the Financial Year 2024-25, eleven meetings of 
the Capital Raising Committee were held on April 4, 2024, 
 
year under review, the composition of the Committee was 
changed twice. Pursuant to cessation of Mr. Arun Adhikari 
w.e.f. August 30, 2024 & Mr. Krishnan Ramachandran 
w.e.f. December 26, 2024 from the Board of the Company, 
 
April 12, 2024, April 16, 2024, April 23, 2024, May 21, 2024, 
July 12, 2024, July 18, 2024 (two meetings), July 19, 2024 
(two meetings) and January 9, 2025. 
Mr. Rajat Kumar Jain & Mr. Sunirmal Talukdar were appointed 
in their place as Members of the Committee w.e.f. August 
31, 2024 and December 27, 2024 respectively. 
The composition of the Capital Raising Committee and the 
attendance of the members at the meetings held during the 
Financial Year 2024-25 are as under:
Name of Director
Category
No. of 
No. of 
In view of the losses incurred by the Company during the 
last three financial years, the Company has no obligation for 
CSR spend during the Financial Year 2024-25.
Meetings 
Meetings 
held during 
attended
E.	 Risk Management Committee 
the tenure
Mr. Anjani Kumar Agrawal
Independent
11
11
Mr. Ashwani Windlass
Independent
11
11
Mr. Himanshu Kapania
Non-Executive
11
11
Mr. Ravinder Takkar
Non-Executive
11
11
G.	 Finance Committee 
The Company has a Finance Committee to approve matters 
relating to availing of financial / banking facilities and other 
treasury and banking related matters. Finance Committee 
looks into matters pertaining to fund and non-fund based 
borrowings, investments, working capital management 
besides other powers granted to it by the Board. 
In compliance with the requirements of Regulation 21 of 
the Listing Regulations, the Board has duly constituted 
the Risk Management Committee. The Committee’s prime 
responsibility is to frame, implement and monitor the 
Enterprise Risk Management framework which includes 
identification of internal and external risks specifically faced by 
the Company, including financial, operational, sectoral, cyber 
security risks etc., the risk mitigation and business continuity 
plan and appropriate methodology to monitor the same. 
The Committee reviews and monitors the risk management 
plan and ensures its effectiveness. During the Financial Year 
2024-25, the Committee comprised of four members – two 
Non-Executive Directors and two Independent Directors. 
Mr. Himanshu Kapania (Non-Executive) is the Chairperson 
of the Committee and Mr. Sunil Sood (Non-Executive), 
 
During the Financial Year 2024-25, Six meetings of the 
Finance Committee were held on April 1, 2024, May 2, 2024, 
October 3, 2024, November 23, 2024, December 2, 2024 
and March 31, 2025.
Mr. Rajat Kumar Jain (Independent) and Mr. Ashwani Windlass 
(Independent) are other members of the Risk Management 
Committee. The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief 
Financial Officer are permanent invitees to the meetings. The 
Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the Committee. 
The composition of the Finance Committee and the 
attendance of the members at the meetings held during 
the Financial Year 2024-25 are as under:
Name of Director
Category
No. of 
No. of 
Meetings 
Meetings 
held 
attended
During the Financial Year 2024-25, the Risk Management 
Committee met twice on September 27, 2024 and March 24, 
2025 and all the members of the Committee were present 
for the Committee Meetings.
during the 
The composition of the Committee changed once 
 
tenure
Mr. Himanshu Kapania
Non-Executive
6
5
during the year under review. Pursuant to cessation 
of Mr. Arun Adhikari from Board of the Company, 
 
Mr. Ravinder Takkar
Non-Executive
6
5
Mr. Rajat Kumar Jain was appointed in his place as a member 
of the Committee.
Mr. Sushil Agarwal
Non-Executive
6
2
Mr. Sateesh Kamath1
Non-Executive
3
1
F.	
Capital Raising Committee 
Mr. Selcuk Karacay2
Non-Executive
3
3
Mr. Akshaya Moondra
Chief Executive Officer
6
6
1 Resigned w.e.f. October 30, 2024
The Company has a Capital Raising Committee to evaluate 
various modes of equity/debt issuance for raising further 
funds and also allotment of securities besides other powers 
granted to it by the Board.
2 Appointed w.e.f. October 30, 2024
82


--- Page 90 ---
Directors’ Report &
Business Responsibility
Financial
Corporate
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
and Sustainability Report
Statements
Governance Report
During the year under review, the composition of the 
Committee was changed once. Pursuant to resignation 
of Mr. Sateesh Kamath from the Board of the Company, 
 
Mr. Selcuk Karacay was appointed in his place as a Member 
of the Committee.
3.	 SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES 
The subsidiary companies are managed by their respective 
Board of Directors. The policy for determining material 
subsidiary is available on the Company’s website 
 
were approved by the Audit Committee under specific 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. None of 
the transactions with related parties were in conflict 
with the Company’s interest. There are no materially 
significant Related Party Transactions made by the 
Company with Promoters, Directors or Key Managerial 
Personnel etc. which may have potential conflict with 
the interest of the Company at large. The details of 
arrangement/transaction with related parties which 
could be considered material in accordance with 
the Company’s Policy on Related Party Transactions 
read with the Listing Regulations are disclosed in 
 
https://www.myvi.in/investors/corporate-goverance. This 
Policy was revised and adopted by the Board of Directors of 
the Company at the meeting held on February 11, 2025. Due 
to net worth of the Company being negative, Vodafone Idea 
Communication Systems Limited, Vodafone Idea Shared 
Services Limited and Vodafone Idea Manpower Services 
Limited which were material subsidiaries of the Company 
as per Regulation 16(1)(c) of the SEBI Listing Regulations 
have ceased to be material during the year under review. 
The disclosure required on material subsidiaries applicable 
for the part of the year under review is provided elsewhere 
in this report. 
Further in accordance with Regulation 24(1) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, Mr. Krishnan Ramachandran, Independent 
Director of the Company served as a Director on the Board of 
the aforesaid material subsidiary companies and continues 
to do so. As part of good governance, the Company and its 
material unlisted subsidiaries (considered for part of the year) 
have undertaken Secretarial Audit and the Secretarial Audit 
Report(s), form part of this Annual Report. 
Form AOC–2. All Related Party Transactions are 
placed before the Audit Committee for their approval. 
Omnibus approvals are taken for the transactions which 
are repetitive in nature. In compliance with Listing 
Regulations, the necessary statements/disclosures with 
respect to the Related Party Transactions, are tabled 
before the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors 
on quarterly basis. The Company has implemented 
a Related Party Transaction Manual and Standard 
Operating Procedures for the purpose of identification 
and monitoring of such transactions. The details of the 
transactions with Related Parties are provided in the 
accompanying financial statements as required under 
Ind AS 24. In line with the requirement of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and Regulation 23 of the Listing Regulations, 
the Company has adopted a Policy on Related Party 
Transactions which is available at Company’s website 
https://www.myvi.in/investors/corporate-goverance. 
The same is reviewed by the Board every three years 
pursuant to the Listing Regulations.
b. 	 Disclosure of Accounting Treatment
The Audit Committee reviews the consolidated financial 
statements of the Company and the investments made 
by its unlisted subsidiary companies, including loans given 
by the Company to its subsidiaries. The minutes of the 
subsidiary companies and significant developments of the 
unlisted subsidiary companies are periodically placed before 
the Board.
	
In the preparation of standalone and consolidated 
financial statements, the Company has followed all 
the applicable Indian Accounting Standards and the 
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India. 
4.	 DISCLOSURES
a.	
Related Party Transactions 
c.	
Details of non-compliance with regard to the 
Capital Markets 
	
There has been no instances of non-compliance by 
the Company and no penalties or strictures have been 
imposed by Stock Exchanges or SEBI or any statutory
 
	
All contracts/arrangements/transactions entered 
by the Company with the related parties during the 
Financial Year 2024-25 as detailed in Note No. 58 of 
the Standalone Financial Statements were in ordinary
 
course of business and at an arm’s length basis and 
authority on any matter related to capital markets during 
the last three years.
83
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 91 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
d.	 Proceeds from Public Issues, Rights Issues, 
Preferential Issues etc. 
Limited and Usha Martin Telematics Limited 
aggregating to ` 19,800 Mn. The proceeds of 
the issue have been utilized for payment of dues 
to Indus Towers Limited in compliance with the 
objects stated in the notice of the Extraordinary
 
	
During the Financial Year 2024-25, following Public 
Issues, Rights Issue or Preferential Issues were 
undertaken by the Company - 
General Meeting held on January 7, 2025.  
 
• 
The Company successfully completed a Further 
Public Offering (“FPO”) of equity shares aggregating 
to ` 180,000 Mn. On April 23, 2024 the Company 
issued and allotted 16,36,36,36,363 Equity Shares 
of face value ` 10/- each at an Offer price of 
 
` 11/- per Equity Share (including a premium of 
 
	
	
The uses/application of proceeds/funds raised 
from the aforementioned issues have been 
disclosed to the Audit Committee and Board on 
a quarterly basis and necessary certifications and 
disclosures are made in this regard to the Stock 
Exchanges.
` 1 per Equity Share), aggregating to ` 180,000 Mn. 
The proceeds are being utilised towards objects 
of the Issue as stated in the Prospectus dated 
 
April 22, 2024.
 
• 
On May 21, 2024, the Company allotted 
1,39,54,27,034 Equity Shares at an issue price of 
 
` 14.87 per Equity Shares aggregating to 
 
 
• 
Further, pursuant to the exercise of option attached 
to the Optionally Convertible Debentures (OCDs), 
by the OCD Holder(s), issued by the Company in 
the Financial Year 2022-23, the  Company allotted 
16,00,00,000 Equity Shares on July 12, 2024, 
against the conversion of balance 1,600 OCDs. 
With the said conversion, all outstanding OCDs 
stand converted into equity shares. The proceeds 
were raised in the Financial Year 2022-23 and were 
utilized towards the objects stated in the notice of 
the Extraordinary General Meeting held on February 
25, 2023. 
` 20,750 Mn on preferential basis to Oriana 
Investments Pte. Ltd., a Promoter Group. The 
proceeds of the issue have been utilized for 
payments to Department of Telecommunications 
and for general corporate purpose in compliance 
with the objects stated in the Notice of the 
Extraordinary General Meeting held on May 8, 2024.
e.	
Prevention of Insider Trading 
 
• 
The Company on July 18 and July 19, 2024, 
allotted 1,66,08,10,804 Equity Shares at an 
issue price of ` 14.80 per Equity Shares to Nokia 
Solutions and Networks India Private Limited 
(1,02,70,27,024 Equity Shares) and Ericsson 
India Private Limited (63,37,83,780 Equity 
Shares), vendors of the Company, aggregating to 
 
` 24,580 Mn on preferential basis. The proceeds of 
the issue have been utilized for payment of dues to 
Nokia Solutions and Networks India Private Limited 
and Ericsson India Private Limited and for general 
corporate purpose in compliance with the objects 
stated in the notice of the Extraordinary General 
Meeting held on July 10, 2024.  
	
In terms of the provisions of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations, 2015, as amended from time to time, 
the Company has adopted a ‘Code of Conduct’ to 
regulate, monitor and report trading by designated 
persons in listed or proposed to be listed securities 
of the Company (“the Insider Trading Code”). The 
Insider Trading Code aims at preserving and preventing 
misuse of unpublished price sensitive information. 
It is applicable to ‘Designated Persons’ including 
Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and Employees as 
defined therein, which provides inter-alia for periodical 
disclosures and obtaining pre-clearances for trading in 
the securities of the Company. 
 
• 
On January 9, 2025, the Company allotted 
1,69,32,18,361 Equity Shares at an issue price of 
 
` 11.28/- per share (including a premium of 
 
` 1.28 per Equity Share) on preferential basis to 
promoters – Omega Telecom Holdings Private 
	
The policy and the procedures are periodically revised 
from time to time and communicated to the Designated 
Persons. Trading window closure is intimated to all 
Designated Persons delete - employees and to the 
Stock Exchange in advance, whenever required. 
84


--- Page 92 ---
Directors’ Report &
Business Responsibility
Financial
Corporate
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
and Sustainability Report
Statements
Governance Report
	
The details required of Material Subsidiaries (for part of 
the year) in terms of Listing Regulations are provided 
hereunder: 
	
The Company Secretary has been appointed as the 
Compliance Officer and is responsible for adherence 
to the Code.
Date of 
Place of 
Date of 
f.	
Whistle Blower Policy/ Vigil Mechanism
Incorporation
Incorporation
Name 
of the 
Name of 
Material 
Subsidiary
Statutory 
Appointment / 
Reappointment 
Auditor
of Statutory 
Auditor
October 29, 
Mumbai
S.R. 
August 20, 
2016
Batliboi & 
2024
Vodafone Idea 
Shared Services 
Limited
Associates 
LLP
June 12,  
Mumbai
S.R. 
August 21, 
2008
Batliboi & 
2024
Vodafone Idea 
Communications 
Systems Limited
Associates 
LLP
October 3, 
Ahmedabad
S.R. 
August 25, 
2007
Batliboi & 
2022
Vodafone Idea 
Manpower 
Services Limited
Associates 
LLP
	
The Company has established a Whistle Blower Policy/
Vigil Mechanism for Directors and Employees pursuant to 
which a Committee has been constituted for addressing 
complaints received from Directors and Employees 
concerning unethical behavior, actual or suspected fraud 
and violation of Code of Conduct or Ethics Policy of the 
Company. The Policy provides adequate safeguards 
against victimization of Director(s)/ Employee(s) and 
direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee 
in exceptional cases. The Company hereby affirms that 
no Director/Employee has been denied access to the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
g.	 Consolidated fees paid to Statutory Auditors 
j.	
Compliance with the Mandatory Corporate 
Governance Requirements as prescribed under 
the Listing Regulations 
	
Total fees for all services paid by the Company and its 
subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to the Statutory
 
Auditors and all entities in the network firm/network 
entity for Financial Year 2024-25 of which the Statutory 
Auditors are a part is as under:
Audit Fees
` 85 Mn
Certification and other services
` 28 Mn
Reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses
` 5 Mn
Total
` 118 Mn
	
The Board of Directors periodically review the 
compliance of all applicable laws. The Company has 
complied with all the mandatory requirements of the 
Code of Corporate Governance as stipulated under 
Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) and (t) 
of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 of the Listing 
Regulations. The Company has obtained a certificate 
affirming the compliances from M/s. S.R. Batliboi & 
Associates LLP, Chartered Accountants, the Company’s 
Statutory Auditors and the same is appended as an 
Annexure to this Report.
h.  	 Disclosure on loans or advances 
k.	
Details of Compliances with the Non-mandatory 
Corporate Governance as prescribed under the 
SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 
There have been no loans or advances extended by the 
Company or its subsidiaries, which bear resemblance 
to loans, to any firms or companies where the Directors 
of the Company hold an interest.
i.	
Disclosure on Material Subsidiaries
	
In addition to the mandatory requirements, the 
Company has also adopted the following non-
mandatory requirements as prescribed in Regulation 
27 of the Listing Regulations: 
	
Following subsidiaries (reported as material at the 
beginning of the year) ceased to be Material Subsidiary 
pursuant to the amended policy for determining 
Material Subsidiary which was adopted by the Board in 
 
 
• 
The position of the Chairman of the Board and the 
Chief Executive Officer of the Company are held by 
separate individuals. 
February 2025. 
 
• 
The Company maintains a separate office for 
the Non-Executive Chairman. All necessary 
85
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 93 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
Name
Designation
Sr. 
No.
infrastructure and assistance is made available 
to enable him to discharge his responsibilities 
effectively. 
4.
Mr. Avneesh Khosla
Chief Marketing Officer
5.
Mr. Murthy GVAS
Chief Financial Officer
 
• 
The internal auditor directly reports to the Audit 
Committee.
6.
Mr. Jagbir Singh
Chief Technology 
Officer
7.
Mr. Suvamoy Roy 
Choudhary 
Chief Human Resource 
Officer
 
• 
The Independent Directors of the Company met 
twice during the Financial Year 2024-25 without 
the presence of Non-Independent Directors of the 
Company.
8.
Ms. Ambika Khurana
Chief Regulatory & 
Corporate Affairs 
Officer (w.e.f. 
September 23, 2024)
l.	
Disclosures in relation to the Sexual Harassment 
of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013
9.
Mr. Pankaj Kapdeo
General Counsel & 
Company Secretary
	
a.	
Number of Complaints filed during the Financial 
Year - 6 
10.
Mr. Ranjan Sharma
Chief Commercial 
Officer
	
b.	
Number of Complaints disposed off during the 
Financial Year - 6 
5.    MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
	
A detailed report on Management Discussion and 
Analysis forms part of the Annual Report.
	
c.	
Number of Complaints pending as on end of the 
Financial Year – 0
m. 	 Disclosure under Clause 5A of paragraph A of 
6.	 CEO / CFO CERTIFICATION
Part A of Schedule III of SEBI Listing Regulations
	
As required under Regulation 17(8) of the Listing 
Regulations, certificate duly signed by the CEO/ CFO of 
the Company is appended as an Annexure to this Report.
7.	
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
	
This Corporate Governance Report forms part of the 
Annual Report. The Company is in compliance with 
the Corporate Governance requirements specified 
under Regulation 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) and (t) 
of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 of the Listing 
Regulations.
	
A Shareholders’ agreement dated March 20, 2017 (as 
amended from time to time), effective from August 31, 
2018, was executed among certain Vodafone group 
companies and certain Aditya Birla group companies 
including Mr. Kumar Managlam Birla and the Company 
setting out, inter alia, the key terms and conditions in 
relation to governance and control of the Company, 
besides other matters. Important provisions of the 
agreement form part of the Articles of Association of 
the Company. 
8.	 COMPLIANCES 
n. 	 Senior Management
	
(a)	 A certificate from the Company’s Statutory 
	
The details of Senior Management Personnel as on 
March 31, 2025 including changes therein since the 
close of the previous financial year are as under:
Name
Designation
Sr. 
No.
1.
Mr. Akshaya Moondra 
Chief Executive Officer
Auditors M/s S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP, 
Chartered Accountants, affirming compliance with 
the conditions of the Corporate Governance as 
stipulated under Regulation 34 read with Schedule 
V (E) of the Listing Regulations is appended as an 
Annexure to this report.  
2.
Mr. Abhijit Kishore
Chief Operating Officer
	
(b)	 A certificate from M/s Umesh Ved & Associates, 
3.
Mr. Arvind Nevatia
Chief Enterprise 
Business Officer
Practicing Company Secretaries, as required under 
the Listing Regulations confirming that none of 
86


--- Page 94 ---
Directors’ Report &
Business Responsibility
Financial
Corporate
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
and Sustainability Report
Statements
Governance Report
	
(c)	 During the year under review, the Board has 
accepted the recommendations made by the 
various Board Committees constituted.
the Directors of the Board of the Company have 
been debarred or disqualified from being appointed 
or continuing as Director of companies by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry
 
of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority 
is appended as Annexure to this report.  
9.	 GENERAL BODY MEETINGS
The details pertaining to last three Annual General Meetings of the Company are provided:
Date
Time
Venue
Particulars of Special Resolution(s)
Financial 
Year
1.	Appointment of Mr. Rajat Kumar Jain 
2023-24
August 28, 2024
3:00 p.m.
By Video Conferencing and 
Other Audio Visual Means
as an Independent Director of the 
Company for a period of five years 
effective 31 August 2024.
2.	To increase the term of Mr. Ashwani 
Windlass as an Independent Director.
3.	To increase the term of Ms. Neena 
Gupta as an Independent Director.
4.	To increase the term of Mr. Suresh 
Vaswani as an Independent Director.
2022-23
July 17, 2023
3:00 p.m.
By Video Conferencing and 
Other Audio Visual Means
No Special Resolutions were passed. All 
resolutions were Ordinary in nature.
2021-22
August 29, 2022
3:00 p.m.
By Video Conferencing and 
Other Audio Visual Means
1.
Appointment of Mr. Anjani Kumar 
Agrawal as an Independent Director of 
the Company for term of three years.
2.
Appointment of Mr. Akshaya Moondra 
as the Chief Executive Office of the 
Company.
Extra-ordinary General Meeting 
During the Financial Year 2024-25, four Extra-Ordinary General Meetings were held:
Date
Time
Venue
Particulars of Special Resolution(s)
Issuance of securities upto an aggregate amount of 
 
April 2, 2024
3:00 p.m.
By Video Conferencing and 
Other Audio Visual Means
` 20,000 Crore.
1.	 Alteration in the Authorised Share Capital of the 
May 8, 2024
3:00 p.m.
By Video Conferencing and 
Other Audio Visual Means
Company and consequential amendment in the 
Capital Clause of the Memorandum of Association 
of the Company.
2.	 Issuance of Equity Shares on Preferential Basis 
aggregating to ` 2,075 Crore to promoter group 
company, Oriana Investments Pte. Ltd.
87
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 95 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
Date
Time
Venue
Particulars of Special Resolution(s)
July 10, 2024
4:00 p.m.
By Video Conferencing and 
Other Audio Visual Means
Issuance of Equity Shares on Preferential Basis 
aggregating to ` 2,458 Crore to non-promoters Nokia 
Solutions and Networks India Private Limited and 
 
Ericsson India Private Limited.
1.	 Issuance of Equity Shares on Preferential Basis 
January 7, 2025
4:00 p.m.
By Video Conferencing and 
Other Audio Visual Means
aggregating to ` 1,980 Crore to promoters - Omega 
Telecom Holdings Private Limited and   Usha Martin 
Telematics Limited.
2.	 Appointment of Mr. Sunirmal Talukdar as an 
Independent Director of the Company.
	
Tribunal Convened Meetings
of the Act, read with the Rules framed thereunder and 
applicable circulars issued by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs from time to time.
	
There was no Tribunal convened Meeting held during 
the Financial Year 2024-25.
	
Postal Ballot
The postal ballot was carried out as per the provisions of 
Sections 108 and 110 and other applicable provisions 
During the Financial Year, the following special 
resolutions were passed by the shareholders by the 
requisite majority by way of postal ballot through 
e-voting.
Resolution passed
Voting Results
Approval date
Scrutinizer
Date of Postal
Ballot Notice
Voting against – 11.04%
August 27, 2024
Adoption of Vodafone Idea Limited 
Employee Stock Option and 
Performance Stock Unit Scheme 2024
Voting in favour – 88.99%
Voting in favour – 88.96%
October 10, 2024
Mr. Umesh Ved,
Umesh Ved & Associates,
Practising Company Secretaries,
FCS – 4411
C.P. No. – 2924
Voting against – 11.01%
Extension of Vodafone Idea Limited 
Employee Stock Option and 
Performance Stock Unit Scheme 2024 
to employees of subsidiary companies 
of the Company
The voting results are made available on our website at https://www.myvi.in/investors/annual-reports.
	
None of the businesses proposed to be transacted at the ensuing Annual General Meeting requires passing of a Special 
Resolution through Postal Ballot.	
10.	MEANS OF COMMUNICATION
	
Quarterly Results, Presentation and News 
Releases
	
The Company’s quarterly financial results are published 
in one English newspaper circulating in the whole or 
substantially the whole of India and in one vernacular 
newspaper of the State of Gujarat where the Registered 
Office of the Company is situated. The quarterly 
financial results during the Financial Year 2024-25, 
were published in Business Standard (all editions) 
and Western Times (a regional daily published in 
Ahmedabad, Gujarat). 
	
The Company’s quarterly financial results, presentation 
made to Institutional Investors/Analysts, quarterly 
reports, official news releases and other general 
information about the Company sent to the Stock 
Exchanges and are also uploaded on the Company’s 
website https://www.myvi.in/investors/results.
88


--- Page 96 ---
Directors’ Report &
Business Responsibility
Financial
Corporate
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
and Sustainability Report
Statements
Governance Report
:
By November 14, 2025
Financial reporting 
for the quarter ending 
September 30, 2025
	
At the end of each quarter, the Company organizes 
earnings call with the analysts and investors and the 
audio recordings and transcripts of the same are 
thereafter uploaded on the website of the Company 
and on Stock Exchanges.
:
By February 14, 2026
	
Website
Financial reporting for 
the quarter ending 
December 31, 2025
:
By May 30, 2026
Financial reporting 
for the year ending 
 
March 31, 2026
	
The Company’s website www.myvi.in has a dedicated 
section for investor relations containing the financial 
results, shareholding pattern, annual reports, quarterly 
reports, updates / intimations filed with Stock 
Exchange(s), various policies adopted by the Board. 
:
By August 31, 2026
	
NSE Electronic Application Processing 
 
Annual General Meeting 
for the Financial Year 
2025-26
System (NEAPS) and BSE Portal for Electronic 
filing
3.
Book Closure Date
: 
August 18, 2025 to 
August 25, 2025
(both days inclusive)
4.
Dividend
:
Nil
5.
Dividend Payment 
Date
	
All periodical compliance filings, like Shareholding 
Pattern, Integrated Report on Corporate Governance, 
Media Releases and other material information are 
filed with the Stock Exchanges electronically on the 
designated portals (The National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited: NEAPS and BSE Limited: BSE Listing 
Centre).
:
Not Applicable (Since no 
Dividend is recommended 
for Financial Year 2025-26)
GENERAL SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION
1.	 Annual General Meeting
Day and Date
:
Monday, August 25, 2025
Time
:
4:00 p.m. IST
6.
Registered Office
:
Suman Tower,
Plot No. 18, Sector - 11,
Gandhinagar – 382 011,
Gujarat
Tel: +91-79-66714000
Fax: +91-79-23232251
7.	
Listing Details
The Equity Shares of the Company are listed on the 
following Stock Exchanges:
	
a)	 The Equity Shares of the Company are listed 
on the following Stock Exchanges
Name of Stock Exchanges
Venue
:
The Company is conducting 
meeting through Video 
Conferencing pursuant 
to the MCA Circulars 
and as such there is no 
requirement to have a 
venue for the AGM. For 
details please refer to 
the Notice of this AGM 
to be held over Video 
Conferencing.
2.	 Financial Calendar for 2024-25 (Tentative)
BSE Limited
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, 
Dalal Street,
Mumbai – 400 001
:
By August 14, 2025
National Stock Exchange 
of India Limited
Exchange Plaza,
Bandra-Kurla Complex, 
Bandra (East),
Mumbai – 400 051
Financial reporting 
for the quarter ending 
June 30, 2025
The Annual Listing fees for the Financial Year 2024-25 has 
been paid to the above Stock Exchanges.
89
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 97 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
	
b)   Debt Securities
11.	Shareholding Pattern
The Shareholding Pattern of the Company as on 
 
	
	
There are no Non-Convertible Debentures issued 
by the Company, which are outstanding as at 
 
March 31, 2025 is as follows:
March 31, 2025.
Sr. 
Category
No. of Shares
% 
No.
Shareholding
8.	 Registrar and Share Transfer Agents
27,70,27,78,543
38.80
I
Promoter and Promoter 
Group
II
Government of India
16,13,31,84,899
22.60
III
Public Shareholding
(a) Institutional Investors
M/s. Bigshare Services Private Limited 
Office No. S6-2, 6th Floor, Pinnacle Business Park, 
Next to Ahura Centre,  
Mahakali Caves Road, 
Andheri (East),  
Mumbai - 400 093
Foreign Portfolio Investors
7,21,61,73,071
10.11
Mutual Funds / Venture Funds
3,26,51,87,126
4.57
9.	 Share Transfer System
Financial Institutions / Banks
19,50,324
0.00
Insurance Companies
25,25,85,153
0.35
(b) Others
Bodies Corporate (Indian)
3,16,61,11,442
4.44
Non-Resident Indians
34,68,40,562
0.49
Others
8,45,68,204
0.12
Individuals / HUF
13,22,36,55,677
18.52
Total
71,39,30,35,001
100.00
More than 99.99% of the equity share capital of the 
Company is held in Demat form. Transfer of shares in 
dematerialized form is done through the depositories 
without any involvement of the Company. In terms of 
the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. April 1, 2019, the Company has 
stopped effecting transfer of securities in physical form 
unless the securities are held in dematerialised form 
with the depository, i.e. National Securities Depository 
Limited and Central Depository Services (India) Limited. 
In view of the above and the inherent benefits of 
holding securities in electronic form, shareholders 
holding shares in physical form are requested to opt 
for dematerialisation.
10.	Distribution of Shareholding
Note: Pursuant to the order dated March 29, 2025 issued 
by the Government of India, Ministry of Communications, 
under section 62(4) of the Companies Act, 2013 directing for 
conversion of Deferred Payment obligations towards spectrum 
auction dues amounting to ` 3,69,500 Mn into 36,950 Mn 
Equity Shares, the Capital Raising Committee at its meeting 
held on April 8, 2025, allotted 36,95,00,00,000 Equity Shares 
at an issue price of ` 10/- each to Government of India (GoI). 
Post the year end, the GoI shareholding increased from 22.6% 
to 49.0% whilst the Promoter shareholding stood reduced 
 
The distribution of shareholding of the Company as on 
March 31, 2025 is as follows:
to 25.6%. 
Number of 
Number of 
% to total 
No. of Shares 
% to total 
Equity Shares 
Share-
Share-
held
Share-
12.	Dematerialisation of Shares and Liquidity
held
holders
holders
holding
	
The Shares of the Company are compulsorily 
 
Upto 5000
46,79,722
73.62
33,81,39,331
0.47
tradable in dematerialized form through both the 
5001 – 10000
4,73,804
7.45
39,15,94,732
0.55
Depository Systems in India viz. National Securities 
10001– 20000
4,63,783
7.30
69,12,02,449
0.97
Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository 
20001 – 30000
1,82,956
2.88
46,94,09,428
0.66
Services (India) Limited (CDSL). A total number of 
30001 – 40000
96,047
1.51
34,47,52,957
0.48
40001 – 50000
86,192
1.36
40,78,41,506
0.57
71,39,30,17,921 Equity Shares of the Company 
50001 – 100000
1,68,554
2.65
1,26,35,57,619
1.77
constituting over 99.99% of the issued, subscribed and 
100001 & above
2,05,259
3.23
67,48,65,36,979
94.53
paid-up share capital were held in dematerialized form 
Total
63,56,317
100.00 71,39,30,35,001
100.00
as on March 31, 2025.
90


--- Page 98 ---
Directors’ Report &
Business Responsibility
Financial
Corporate
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
and Sustainability Report
Statements
Governance Report
17.	 Credit Ratings
13.	Outstanding GDRs/ADRs etc.
The credit ratings outstanding for various instruments 
of the Company as on March 31, 2025 are as under:
Rating 
Instrument
Rating
Agency
As on March 31, 2025
Care Ratings
Bank Facilities (Long Term)
CARE BB+ (Stable)
Short Term Bank Facilities
CARE A4+
	
Out of the 16,000 Optionally Convertible Debentures 
(OCDs) issued by the Company to ATC Telecom 
Infrastructure Private Limited only 1,600 OCDs were 
outstanding as on April 1, 2024. Pursuant to receipt 
of conversion notice from the OCD holders, the same 
were converted into Equity Shares and allotted to the 
holders of OCDs. As on March 31, 2025, no OCDs are 
outstanding at the end of the year.
18.	Other Useful Information 
	
There are no outstanding warrants as at the end of 
 
(a)	 Unpaid / Unclaimed Dividend  
the year. 
	
The Company does not have any outstanding GDRs/
ADRs/ Warrants or any convertible instruments as on 
March 31, 2025.
14.	Commodity Price Risk or Foreign Exchange Risk 
and Hedging Activities.
	
Pursuant to Sections 124 and 125 of the Act read with 
the Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority 
(Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 
(“IEPF Rules”), the dividend which remains unclaimed 
for a consecutive period of seven years from the date 
of transfer to Unpaid Dividend Account of the Company 
is required to be transferred to the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund (“IEPF”) established by the Central 
Government. 
	
The Company hedges its foreign currency exposure in 
respect of its imports and borrowings as per its laid 
down policies. The Company uses a mix of various 
derivative instruments like forward covers, currency 
swaps, interest rate swaps or a mix of all. The Company 
does not have any exposure to commodity price risks. 
Further, there are no outstanding foreign currency 
borrowings as at the end of the year.
15.	Plant Locations
	
The Company being a service provider, has no plant 
locations.
16.	Investor Correspondence
	
Further, in terms of the provisions of IEPF Rules, Equity 
Shares in respect of which dividend has not been paid 
or claimed for seven consecutive years or more from 
the date of declaration has also been transferred to an 
account viz. IEPF Suspense Account, which is operated 
by the IEPF Authority in terms of the IEPF Rules, 
after providing necessary intimations to the relevant 
Members. The said requirement does not apply to 
shares in respect of which there is a specific order of 
Court, Tribunal or Statutory Authority, restraining any 
transfer of the shares. 
	
In order to facilitate quick redressal of the grievances/ 
queries, the Investors and Shareholders may contact 
the Company Secretary at the under mentioned new 
corporate office address for any assistance:	
	
The Company has not paid dividend after the Financial 
Year 2015-16. Therefore, during the Financial Year 
2024-25 there was no requirement for transfer of 
unpaid/unclaimed dividend to IEPF.
	
Mr. Pankaj Kapdeo
Company Secretary
Vodafone Idea Limited
Birla Centurion, 10th Floor
Century Mills Compound,
Pandurang Budhkar Marg,
Worli, Mumbai – 400 030
Tel: +91-9594003434
Fax: +91-22-26527080
E-mail: shs@vodafoneidea.com
	
The details of unpaid / unclaimed dividend and Equity 
Shares for dividends declared upto Financial Year 
2015-16 are uploaded on the website of the Company 
at https://www.myvi.in/investors/investorssupport as 
well as website of the IEPF Authority and the same can 
be accessed through the link www.iepf.gov.in. No claim 
shall lie against the Company in respect of unclaimed 
dividend amount and Equity Shares transferred to the 
91
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 99 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
in the year 2007 as well as Rights Issue as concluded 
in May 2019 are as given below:
Particulars
No. of 
No. of 
cases
shares
IEPF and IEPF Suspense Account, respectively, pursuant 
to the IEPF Rules. Members can however claim both 
the unclaimed dividend amount and the Equity Shares 
from the IEPF Authority by making applications in the 
manner provided in the IEPF Rules.
22
1,33,669
Aggregate number of shareholders 
and the outstanding shares lying in the 
suspense account at the beginning of 
the year i.e. as on April 1, 2024
TOTAL
22
1,33,669
NIL
NIL
(Less) Number of shareholders 
to whom shares were transferred 
from suspense account during the 
Financial Year 2024-25
	
The Members who have a claim on above dividends 
and shares may claim the same from IEPF Authority by 
submitting an online application in the prescribed Form 
No. IEPF-5 available on the website www.iepf.gov.in and 
sending a copy of the same, duly signed to the Company 
at iepf@vodafoneidea.com and shs@vodafoneidea.com 
along with requisite documents enumerated in the Form 
No. IEPF-5. No claims shall lie against the Company in 
respect of the dividend/shares so transferred. 	
NIL
NIL
(b)	 Disclosure regarding appointment or 
 
re-appointment of Directors
(Add) Shares recovered from 
shareholder during the Financial Year 
2024-25
22
1,33,669
	
Brief profile of the Directors seeking appointment or 
re-appointment is annexed to the Notice convening 
the 30th Annual General Meeting forming part of this 
Annual Report.
Aggregate number of shareholders 
and the outstanding shares lying in 
the suspense account at the end of 
the year i.e. as on March 31, 2025
(c)	 Details of unclaimed shares in terms of 
Regulation 39 of the Listing Regulations
The Voting rights on the shares in the suspense account 
as on March 31, 2025 shall remain frozen till the rightful 
owners of such shares claim the shares. The Company 
sends periodic reminders to the concerned shareholders 
advising them to lodge their claims with IEPF Authority 
in respect of unclaimed shares.
	
In terms of Regulation 39 (4) of the Listing Regulations, 
the details in respect of equity shares lying in the 
suspense accounts which were issued in Demat form 
pursuant to the Initial Public Offer (IPO) of the Company 
92


--- Page 100 ---
Directors’ Report &
Business Responsibility
Financial
Corporate
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
and Sustainability Report
Statements
Governance Report
CEO/CFO CERTIFICATION
To,
The Board of Directors
Vodafone Idea Limited
We, Akshaya Moondra, Chief Executive Officer and Murthy GVAS, Chief Financial Officer, of Vodafone Idea Limited 
(‘the Company’), to the best of our knowledge and belief, hereby certify that:
a)	
We have reviewed the financial statements and cash flow statements of the Company for the year ended March 31, 
2025 and: 
	
i)	
these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements 
that might be misleading; 
	
ii)	
these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with existing 
Accounting Standards, applicable laws and regulations. 
b)	
There are no transactions entered into by the Company during the year ended March 31, 2025, which are fraudulent, 
illegal or violative of the Company’s Code of Conduct. 
c)	
We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and we have evaluated 
the effectiveness of internal control systems of the Company pertaining to financial reporting. We have disclosed to 
the Auditors and the Audit Committee, deficiencies in the design and operations of such internal controls, if any, of 
which we are aware and steps that have been taken to rectify these deficiencies. 
d)	
We have indicated to the Auditors and the Audit Committee, wherever applicable: 
	
i)	
Significant changes in the internal control over financial reporting during the year; 
	
ii)	
Significant changes in the accounting policies during the year and that the same has been disclosed in the notes 
to the financial statements; and
	
iii)	 Instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if any, of the management 
or any employee having a significant role in the Company’s internal control system over financial reporting.
Place: Mumbai
Date : May 30, 2025
Akshaya Moondra
Chief Executive Officer
Murthy GVAS
Chief Financial Officer
CODE OF CONDUCT
DECLARATION
As provided under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015, the Board of Directors and the Senior Management Personnel of Vodafone Idea Limited have confirmed compliance 
with the Code of Conduct for the year ended March 31, 2025.
Place: Mumbai
Date : May 30, 2025
Akshaya Moondra
Chief Executive Officer
93
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 101 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
Certificate of Non-Disqualification of Directors
[Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI  
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]
To, 
The Members of 
Vodafone Idea Limited 
Suman Tower, 
Plot No.18, Sector-11, 
Gandhinagar -382011
Gujarat
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of Vodafone 
Idea Limited having CIN: L32100GJ1996PLC030976 and having registered office at Suman Tower, Plot No.18, 
 
Sector- 11,Gandhinagar -382011, Gujarat (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before us by the Company for 
the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of 
the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications [including Directors Identification Number 
(DIN) status at the portal www.mca.gov.in] as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Company & its 
officers, we hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for the Financial Year 
ending on 31st March, 2025 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of companies 
by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such other Statutory Authority.
Name of Director
DIN
Date of Appointment in Company
Sr. 
No.
1.
Mr. Himanshu Kapania
03387441
01/04/2011
2.
Mr. Ashwani Windlass
00042686
31/08/2018
3.
Mr. Sunil Sood
03132202
24/02/2021
4.
Mr. Sushil Agarwal
00060017
04/08/2021
5.
Mr. Anjani Kumar Agrawal
08579812
27/08/2022
6.
Mr. Suresh Choithram Vaswani
02176528
08/02/2019
7.
Mr. Ravinder Takkar
01719511
31/08/2018
8.
Ms. Neena Gupta
02530640
17/09/2018
9.
Mr. Kumar Mangalam Birla
00012813
20/04/2023
10.
Mr. Rajat Kumar Jain
00046053
31/08/2024
11.
Mr. Sunirmal Talukdar
00920608
27/12/2024
12.
Mr. Selcuk Karacay
10788902
30/10/2024
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment/continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management 
of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an 
assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has 
conducted the affairs of the Company.
Umesh Ved
	
Umesh Ved & Associates
	
Company Secretaries
	
FCS No. : 4411
	
C.P
. No. : 2924
Date	 : May 30, 2025 	
Peer Review No.6564/2025
Place	: Ahmedabad	
UDIN: F004411G000532061
94


--- Page 102 ---
Directors’ Report &
Business Responsibility
Financial
Corporate
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
and Sustainability Report
Statements
Governance Report
Independent Auditor’s Report on compliance with the conditions of Corporate 
Governance as per provisions of Chapter IV of Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended
The Members of 
Vodafone Idea Limited
6.	
We have complied with the relevant applicable 
requirements of the Standard on Quality Control (SQC) 
1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and 
Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and Other 
Assurance and Related Services Engagements.
1.	
The Corporate Governance Report prepared by Vodafone 
Idea Limited (hereinafter the “Company”), contains 
details as specified in regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) 
to (i) and (t) of sub – regulation (2) of regulation 46 
and para C, D, and E of Schedule V of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, 
as amended (“the Listing Regulations”) (‘Applicable 
criteria’) for the year ended March 31, 2025 as required 
by the Company for annual submission to the Stock 
Exchange.
7.	
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks 
associated in compliance of the Corporate Governance 
Report with the applicable criteria. Summary of 
procedures performed include:
Management’s Responsibility
	
i.	
Read and understood the information prepared 
by the Company and included in its Corporate 
Governance Report;
	
ii.	
Obtained and verified that the composition of the 
Board of Directors with respect to executive and 
non-executive directors has been met throughout 
the reporting period;
	
iii.	 Obtained and read the Register of Directors as 
2.	
The preparation of the Corporate Governance Report 
is the responsibility of the Management of the 
Company including the preparation and maintenance 
of all relevant supporting records and documents. This 
responsibility also includes the design, implementation 
and maintenance of internal control relevant to 
the preparation and presentation of the Corporate 
Governance Report.
on March 31, 2025 and verified that atleast one 
independent woman director was on the Board of 
Directors throughout the year;
	
iv.	
Obtained and read the minutes of the following 
committee meetings / other meetings held 
 
3.	
The Management along with the Board of Directors 
are also responsible for ensuring that the Company 
complies with the conditions of Corporate Governance 
as stipulated in the Listing Regulations, issued by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India.
April 01, 2024 to March 31, 2025:
Auditor’s Responsibility
	
	
(a)	 Board of Directors;
	
	
(b)	 Audit Committee;
	
	
(c)	 Annual General Meeting, Extra-ordinary 
General Meeting, Postal Ballot;
4.	
Pursuant to the requirements of the Listing Regulations, 
our responsibility is to provide a reasonable assurance 
in the form of an opinion whether, the Company has 
complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance 
as specified in the Listing Regulations.
	
	
(d)	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee;
	
	
(e)	 Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee; 
	
	
(f)	 Risk Management Committee;
	
	
(g)	 Finance Committee;
	
	
(h)	 Capital Raising Committee; and
	
	
(i)	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
	
	
(j) 	 Committee of Independent Directors 
constituted for FPO;
5.	
We conducted our examination of the Corporate 
Governance Report in accordance with the Guidance 
Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes 
and the Guidance Note on Certification of Corporate 
Governance, both issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (“ICAI”). The Guidance Note on 
Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes requires 
that we comply with the ethical requirements of the 
Code of Ethics issued by ICAI.
95
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 103 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
Other matters and Restriction on Use
	
v.	
Obtained necessary declarations from the directors 
of the Company.
10.	 This report is neither an assurance as to the 
	
vi.	 Obtained and read the policy adopted by the 
Company for related party transactions. 
future viability of the Company nor the efficiency 
or effectiveness with which the management has 
conducted the affairs of the Company. 
	
vii.	 Obtained the schedule of related party transactions 
11.	 This report is addressed to and provided to the 
during the year and balances at the year-end. 
Obtained and read the minutes of the audit 
committee meeting where in such related party 
transactions have been pre-approved prior by the 
audit committee. 
	
viii.	 Performed necessary inquiries with the 
management and also obtained necessary specific 
representations from management.
members of the Company solely for the purpose of 
enabling it to comply with its obligations under the 
Listing Regulations with reference to compliance with 
the relevant regulations of Corporate Governance and 
should not be used by any other person or for any other 
purpose. Accordingly, we do not accept or assume any 
liability or any duty of care or for any other purpose or 
to any other party to whom it is shown or into whose 
hands it may come without our prior consent in writing. 
We have no responsibility to update this report for 
events and circumstances occurring after the date of 
this report.
8.	
The above-mentioned procedures include examining 
evidence supporting the particulars in the Corporate 
Governance Report on a test basis. Further, our scope 
of work under this report did not involve us performing 
audit tests for the purposes of expressing an opinion 
on the fairness or accuracy of any of the financial 
information or the financial statements of the Company 
taken as a whole.
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101049W/E300004
Opinion
per Amit Poddar
Partner
Membership Number: 509192
UDIN: 25509192BNFTRT3017
9.	
Based on the procedures performed by us, as 
referred in paragraph 7 above, and according to the 
information and explanations given to us, we are of 
the opinion that the Company has complied with the 
conditions of Corporate Governance as specified in the 
Listing Regulations, as applicable for the year ended 
 
Place of Signature: Mumbai
Date: May 30, 2025
March 31, 2025, referred to in paragraph 4 above.
96


--- Page 104 ---
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Corporate
Governance Report
Financial
Statements
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Introduction to BRSR
At Vodafone Idea Limited (Vi), we believe that responsible business practices and sustainable growth are inseparable from 
long-term success. As one of India’s leading telecommunications service providers, we recognize our role in shaping a 
sustainable future through ethical governance, environmental stewardship, and positive social impact.
In alignment with the Securities and Exchange Board of India’s (SEBI) mandate and our commitment to transparency, 
accountability, and stakeholder engagement, Vodafone Idea presents its Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 
(BRSR) for the Financial Year (FY) 2024–25. This report marks an important step in deepening our Environmental, Social, 
and Governance (ESG) disclosures, and strengthening our sustainability journey.
Our sustainability strategy is closely aligned with national priorities like Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and climate 
action initiatives. We are committed to integrating responsible practices across our value chain, fostering innovation for a 
greener future, and empowering our partners, employees, and customers to thrive sustainably.
In alignment with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) directives, the 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR) continues to be mandatory 
for the top 1,000 listed entities by market capitalization for the FY 2024–25. This 
requirement, which initially began as a voluntary disclosure in FY 2021–22, was made 
mandatory from FY 2022–23 onwards.
Strengthening the regulatory framework for sustainability reporting, SEBI issued Circular 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2024/177 dated December 20, 2024, titled “Industry 
Standards on Reporting of BRSR Core,” mandating that listed entities comply with 
standardized industry guidelines for BRSR Core disclosures from FY 2024–25 onwards.
This report is in compliance with SEBI’s requirements.
97
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 105 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
Section A: General Disclosures
I.	
Details of the listed entity
1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company
L32100GJ1996PLC030976
2.
Name of the Listed Entity
Vodafone Idea Limited
3.
Year of Incorporation
1995
4.
Registered Office Address
Suman Tower, Plot No. 18, Sector 11,  
Gandhinagar - 382 011, Gujarat
5.
Corporate Address
Birla Centurion, 10th Floor, Century Mills Compound,  
Pandurang Budhkar Marg, Worli, Mumbai - 400030  
(Maharashtra)
6.
E-mail
shs@vodafoneidea.com
7.
Telephone
079-66714000
8.
Website
www.myvi.in
9.
Financial Year for which reporting is being done
FY 2024-25
1.	
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
10.
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are 
listed
2.	
BSE Limited
11.
Paid-up Capital
` 713,930,350,010.00
12.
Name and Contact Details (telephone, e-mail 
address) of the person who may be contacted in 
case of any queries on the BRSR report
Ms. Ambika Khurana
Chief Regulatory and Corporate Affairs Officer
ambika.khurana@vodafoneidea.com
13.
Reporting Boundary
Report is done on a standalone basis 
14.
Name of Assurance Provider
Emergent Ventures India Private Limited (EVI)
15.
Type of Assurance obtained
Reasonable Assurance
II.	
Products/Services
16. 	Details of business activities: (accounting for 90% of the turnover) 
Description of the main activity
Description of business activity
% of turnover of the entity
Sr. 
No.
1.
Information and Communication
Wired, Wireless or Satellite 
100%
Telecommunication activities
17.	 Products/ Services sold by the entity: (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover)
Product/Service
NIC Code 
% of total turnover 
Sr. 
No.
contributed
1.
Wireless Telecommunication Activities
• Activities of Internet access by the operator of the wireless infrastructure 
612
99%
• Activities of maintaining and operating cellular and other 
telecommunication networks 
• Activities of other wireless telecomunications activities
2.
Wired Telecommunication Activities
611
1%
• Activities of basic telecom services: telephone, telex, and telegraph
• Activities of providing internet access by the operator of the wired 
infrastructure
98


--- Page 106 ---
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Corporate
Governance Report
Financial
Statements
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
III.	 Operations
18.	 Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National
0
19
19
International
0
0
0
19.	 Markets served by the entity
	
a.	
Number of locations:
Locations
Number
National (No. of States)
28 States + 8 Union Territories
International (No. of Countries)
NIL
	
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
	
	
8% of the total turnover of the entity.
	
c.	
A brief on types of customers
	
	
Vodafone Idea Limited (VIL) serves all sections of consumers ranging from New Consumer Classification System 
(NCCS), Urban Metro Dwellers and Rural Consumers, across the length and breadth of the country.
IV.	 Employees
20. 	Details as at the end of the Financial Year:
	
a. 	 Employees and workers (including differently abled):
Particulars
Total
Male
Female
Sr. 
No.
(A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
Employee
1
Permanent (D)
9787
8003
81.77%
1784
18.23%
2
Other than Permanent (E)
8671
6306
72.73%
2365
27.27%
3
Total Employees (D + E)
18458
14309
77.52%
4149
22.48%
Workers*
4
Permanent (F)
0
0
0
0
0
5
Other than Permanent (G)
0
0
0
0
0
6
Total Workers (F + G)
0
0
0
0
0
	
	
Note: *VIL does not have any workers
	
b.	
Differently abled Employees and workers:
Particulars
Total
Male
Female
Sr. 
No.
(A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
Differently Abled Employees
1
Permanent (D)
9
8
88.89%
1
11.11%
2
Other than Permanent (E)
-
-
-
-
-
3
Total Employees (D + E)
9
8
88.89%
1
11.11%
Differently Abled Workers*
4
Permanent (F)
0
0
0
0
0
5
Other than Permanent (G)
0
0
0
0
0
6
Total Workers (F + G)
0
0
0
0
0
	
	
Note: *VIL does not have any workers
99
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 107 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
21.	 Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women:
Total
No. and percentage of Females
(A)
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Board of Directors
12
1
8.33%
Key Management Personnel (KMP)
3
0
0
22.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers (Disclose trends for the past 3 years)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees
14.7%
26.3%
16.9%
15.0%
21.0%
16.0%
23.0%
24.2%
23.0%
Permanent Workers*
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
	
Note: *VIL does not have any workers
V.	
Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including Joint Ventures) - 
23.	 Names of Holding / Subsidiary / Associate Companies / Joint Ventures
Name of the Holding 
Indicate whether 
% of Shares held by 
Does the Entity indicated 
Sr. 
No.
/ Subsidiary / 
Holding/ Subsidiary 
Listed Entity
at column A, participate 
Associate Companies 
Associate/ Joint 
in the Business 
/ Joint Ventures (A)
Venture
Responsibility initiatives 
of the Listed Entity?  
(Yes/No)
Refer to the section “Salient features of the Financial Statement of Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures for 
the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025, pursuant to Section 129 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013” forming part of 
this Annual Report.
VI.	 CSR Details
24	 (i)	
Whether CSR is applicable as per Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013: No
	
(ii) 	 Turnover (in `)	 : 431,573 Mn
	
(iii) 	Net worth (in `)	
: (698,562 Mn)
100


--- Page 108 ---
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Corporate
Governance Report
Financial
Statements
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
VII.	 Transparency and Disclosures Compliances –
25.	 Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on
Responsible Business Conduct:
Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism in Place (Yes/No)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Remarks
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
(If yes, then provide web-link 
for grievance redress policy)
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
0
0
-
0
0
 -
Communities
Several mechanisms to 
addressing grievances of 
communities and beneficiaries 
have been established across 
our programs implemented by 
Vodafone Foundation. Using 
a wide variety of channels, 
we actively seek feedback, 
suggestions and complaints 
and resolve them in pre-
defined turnaround time, 
e.g., in Connecting for Good
programme, beneficiaries can 
raise their concerns through 
emails, chat and during 
regular interactions with 
our partners. In Scholarship 
programme, beneficiaries 
are able to reach out to our 
multi-lingual support team and 
can also raise their concerns 
through Chatbot. Additionally, 
beneficiaries can raise their 
concerns using social media 
channels which are responded 
to within well-defined 
timeframe. https://www.myvi.
in/content/dam/microsite/
pdfs/corporategovernance/
CSR_Policy.pdf
Shareholders
Yes.
To redress investor grievances, 
the Company has a dedicated 
e-mail ID shs@vodafoneidea.
com to which investors may 
send complaints. 
2323
0
To redress investor 
grievances, the 
Company has a 
dedicated e-mail ID 
shs@vodafoneidea.
com to which investors 
may send complaints.
327
0
To redress investor 
grievances, the 
Company has a 
dedicated e-mail ID 
shs@vodafoneidea.
com to which investors 
may send complaints. 
101
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 109 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
Stakeholder 
Grievance Redressal 
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
group from 
Mechanism in Place (Yes/No)
whom 
(If yes, then provide web-link 
Number of 
Number of 
Remarks
Number of 
Number of 
Remarks
complaint is 
for grievance redress policy)
complaints 
complaints 
received
complaints 
filed during 
pending 
complaints 
filed during 
pending 
the year
resolution 
the year
resolution 
at close of 
at close of 
the year
the year
0
0
-
0
0
-
Investors 
(Other than 
shareholders)
Investors and shareholders 
have access to Company 
Secretary through a dedicated 
email to report any concerns or 
grievances
Code of Conduct
Employee & 
Workers
Vi has a detailed and 
comprehensive grievance 
redressal mechanism for 
employees. 
Code of Conduct
6
0
-
5
1
Pending complaints 
were closed 
subsequent to the 
closure of the financial 
year.
Customers
https://www.trai.gov.in/
consumer-info/telecom/
grievance-redressal-
mechanism
5789606
5578
Vi adheres to TRAI 
Policy of grievance 
redressal. Customer 
can register complaints 
through different 
modes (CC, Store,  
App, Web, E-mail, 
DoT/TRAI/PG portal 
etc). Customer 
receives the Service 
Request number 
via SMS along with 
TAT at the time of 
complaint registration. 
Complaint is resolved 
by the Central Back 
Office team as per 
the pre-defined TAT, 
and the resolution is 
communicated via 
SMS / Call. In case 
the customer is not 
satisfied with the 
resolution, he has 
the option to appeal 
within 30 days of the 
resolution.
9771432
14869
Vi adheres to TRAI 
Policy of grievance 
redressal. Customer 
can register complaints 
through different 
modes (CC, Store,  
App, Web, E-mail, 
DoT/TRAI/PG portal 
etc). Customer 
receives the Service 
Request number 
via SMS along with 
TAT at the time of 
complaint registration. 
Complaint is resolved 
by the Central Back 
Office team as per 
the pre-defined TAT, 
and the resolution is 
communicated via 
SMS / Call. In case 
the customer is not 
satisfied with the 
resolution, he has 
the option to appeal 
within 30 days of the 
resolution.
102


--- Page 110 ---
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Corporate
Governance Report
Financial
Statements
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
Stakeholder 
Grievance Redressal 
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
group from 
Mechanism in Place (Yes/No)
whom 
(If yes, then provide web-link 
Number of 
Number of 
Remarks
Number of 
Number of 
Remarks
complaint is 
for grievance redress policy)
complaints 
complaints 
received
complaints 
filed during 
pending 
complaints 
filed during 
pending 
the year
resolution 
the year
resolution 
at close of 
at close of 
the year
the year
0 
0
 -
0
0
 -
Value Chain 
Partners
Vi has a stringent process to 
record grievances from value 
chain partners which include 
contractors, suppliers, channel 
partners, vendors, business 
associates among other value 
chain partners
https://vodafoneidea.
integritymatters.in 
26. 	Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues:
Sr. 
No.
Material issue 
Identified
Rationale for Identifying Risk / Opportunity
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate
Indicate 
Whether 
Risk or 
Opportunity
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(Indicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications)
• C re a t i n g  a  s t r u c t u re d 
Negative
governance framework to 
oversee climate change related 
issues.
1.
Climate Change
Risk 
There is a need to keep a watch on emerging regulations 
within the telecom sector and globally on climate change 
(India has taken a Net Zero target by 2070 because of 
the UNFCCC negotiations in the COP), which focuses on 
clean technologies and renewable energy. 
• Designating a Sustainability/ 
ESG committee to overlook all 
the risks, mitigation measures 
and contingency plans if there 
is a risk.
Over recent years, India has faced severe consequences 
of climate change, affecting both humans and physical 
infrastructure. Telecom disruptions not only threaten 
Vodafone Idea with significant restructuring costs but also 
hinder essential communication pre and post disaster, 
crucial for disaster prevention and rescue efforts.
• Partnering with relevant 
Negative
2
E-waste 
Management
government agencies to ensure 
proper handling, recycling, and 
disposal of electronic waste.
• A d h e r i n g  t o  e - w a s t e 
Risk
Telecom equipment, networking infrastructure, contributes 
significantly to e-waste generation. Inadequate e-waste 
management poses environmental and health hazards, 
regulatory non-compliance risks, and reputational 
damage. Effective management strategies are essential 
to mitigate these risks, ensure regulatory compliance.
management regulations 
• Regularly monitoring e-waste 
management practices.
103
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 111 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
Sr. 
No.
Material issue 
Identified
Rationale for Identifying Risk / Opportunity
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate
Indicate 
Whether 
Risk or 
Opportunity
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(Indicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications)
• VIL is bound by /complies 
Negative
3.
Customer Privacy 
& Data Security
with license terms to ensure 
confidentiality of subscriber 
information. 
Risk 
Instances of usage and selling of consumer data / data 
privacy breaches are leading to rising privacy concerns. It is 
important for VIL to communicate transparently about the 
policies regarding the quantity, kind, and use of consumer 
data that is provided to third parties.
• VIL has also been taking steps 
In the age of increased cybersecurity threats, 
protecting customer data is paramount to maintaining 
competitiveness and safeguarding the integrity of their 
services.
such as meticulous planning, 
rigorous assessment, and 
proactive measures to align our 
practices with the requirements 
outlined in the DPDP Act. 
• Conducting customer privacy 
audits regularly.
In India, there are ongoing efforts to update regulations 
regarding privacy and personal data protection through 
the DPDP Act. This proposed Act aims to regulate the 
usage and protection of customer data. 
• Disciplinary action in case of 
breaches.
• Creating stringent measures to 
ensure customer privacy.
• Minimize data retention.
• Remaining complaint with the 
Data security concerns can affect customer acquisition 
and retention, decrease market share, and decrease 
the demand for VIL services. Data loss can result in the 
unintentional disclosure of private information, which 
could result in non-compliance, legal ramifications, and 
damage to our brand’s reputation.
regulation.
• Conducting regular quality 
Negative
4.
Quality of Network 
Infrastructure
checks. 
• Recording the number of 
complaints to mitigate risks.
Risk
Network infrastructure is vulnerable to technological 
failure which can be caused by either human mistake 
or natural disasters, which can affect the quality of VIL’s 
services. Rapid technological advancements in the IT 
industry makes it necessary for VIL to make technological 
upgrades that are necessary to satisfy growing client 
demand for stronger and better network connectivity. 
Failure to do so could adversely affect VIL’s business and 
market share.
-
Positive
5.
Talent Attraction 
and Development 
Opportunity 
An organisation with talented employees presents an 
opportunity for VIL to promote innovation, improve service 
delivery, and enhance customer satisfaction. As we evolve 
from a traditional telecom firm to a digital enterprise, our 
ability to attract and upskill talent will be critical to improve 
our business performance and increase market share.
-
Positive
6.
Health, Safety 
and Employee 
wellbeing
Opportunity
Prioritizing employee health and safety fosters a positive 
work environment, and mitigates operational risks. 
Wellness measures taken by VIL not only prevents physical 
harm but also addresses mental health challenges, 
enhancing employee satisfaction and productivity.
In addition, we work on continuous improvement process 
by regularly review, assess, and enhance health safety and 
wellbeing initiatives.
104


--- Page 112 ---
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Corporate
Governance Report
Financial
Statements
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
Sr. 
No.
Material issue 
Identified
Rationale for Identifying Risk / Opportunity
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate
Indicate 
Whether 
Risk or 
Opportunity
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(Indicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications)
-
Positive
7.
Competitive 
Behavior 
Opportunity 
A healthy competition between different telecom 
companies results in every company trying to get a 
technological edge to acquire more market share and a 
bigger customer base.
-
Positive
8
Diversity, Equity 
and Inclusion 
Opportunity
Diversity and Inclusion can help in strengthening the 
organization’s decision making and image in the industry. 
Companies that are diverse, and inclusive are better at 
responding to challenges, accumulating top talent, and 
meeting the needs of their customers. Other benefits of 
diversity and inclusion are:
• 
Improving the quality of decision making.
• 
Increasing customer insight and innovation.
• 
Driving employee motivation and satisfaction.
Negative
9
Regulatory 
Compliance
VIL is regularly monitoring and 
reporting compliances and also 
maintains oversight on changing 
regulations and legislations to 
ensure continued compliance.
Risk
Failure to comply with regulatory compliance can lead 
to legal penalties, reputational damage, and operational 
disruptions. By prioritizing regulatory compliance, VIL can 
mitigate risks, build trust with stakeholders, fostering 
long-term sustainability and value creation and enhance 
its ESG performance.
Section B: Management and Process Disclosures
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards adopting 
the NGRBC Principles and Core Elements. 
The National Guidelines for Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) as prescribed by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs advocates 
nine principles referred as P1-P9 as given below:
P1	
Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity in a manner that is ethical, transparent, and accountable.
P2	
Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe.
P3	
Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains.
P4	
Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive towards all its stakeholders.
P5	
Businesses should respect and promote human rights.
P6	
Businesses should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore the environment.
P7	
Businesses when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and 
transparent.
P8	
Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development.
P9	
Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner.
105
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 113 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and management processes
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
1. a.	 Whether your entity’s policy/policies 
cover each principle and its core 
elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
b.	 Has the policy been approved by the 
Board? (Yes/No)
c.	 Web Link of the Policies, if available
https://www.myvi.in/investors/corporate-goverance
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
2. Whether the entity has translated the 
policy into procedures. (Yes / No)
3. Do the enlisted policies extend to your 
value chain partners? (Yes/No)
Yes, all the enlisted policies extend to our value chain partners wherever 
required. The extension to value chain partners across policies is 
mentioned within each policy drafted and uploaded on our website: 
https://www.myvi.in/investors/corporate-goverance
The policies that VIL has adopted are in conformity with relevant national 
and international standards, wherever statutorily applicable. The policies 
are compliant with the NGRBCs issued by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs and are drafted after taking into consideration the best practices 
adopted across the industry.
4. Name of the national and international 
P9 Providing Customer Value
- ISO 27001 certified Information Security Management System 
- ISO 27701 certified Privacy Information Management
- PCI DSS 4.0 certified The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard
- SOC2 Type II certified
codes/ certifications/ labels/ standards 
(e.g., Forest Stewardship Council, 
Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, Trusted) 
standards (e.g., SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, 
BIS) adopted by your entity and mapped 
to each principle.
5. Specific commitments, goals and 
targets set by the entity with defined 
timelines, if any.
Vodafone Idea continues to advance its sustainability journey with a strong 
focus on energy efficiency and emissions reduction. This commitment 
reflects VIL’s dedication to tackling global environmental challenges such 
as climate change and global warming. In line with (DoT) guidelines, 
the Company monitors network emissions annually. Notably, over 350 
co-owned sites are now powered exclusively by solar energy solutions.
6. Performance of the entity against 
the specific commitments, goals, and 
targets alongwith reasons in case the 
same are not met.
Vodafone Idea is steadily advancing its commitment to sustainability 
by integrating renewable energy sources, such as solar and wind across 
its owned facilities, guided by both regulatory and commercial viability. 
In FY 2024–25, the Company sourced ~47 Mn kWh of energy from 
renewables, an 18% increase from the previous year demonstrating 
consistent progress in our green energy transition. ESG principles remain 
central to our strategy, deeply embedded in every facet of our operations.
Governance, leadership and oversight
7. Statement by Director responsible for the Business Responsibility Report, highlighting ESG related 
challenges, targets and achievements. 
At Vodafone Idea, our commitment to Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) principles is deeply embedded in 
our operations and decision making. We continue to drive sustainable value creation for all stakeholders by integrating 
innovative and responsible practices across our business.
106


--- Page 114 ---
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Corporate
Governance Report
Financial
Statements
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
In line with our commitment to reducing emissions and enhancing energy efficiency, we are steadily increasing our use 
of renewable energy. In FY 2024–25 alone, ~47 Mn kWh of energy was sourced from renewables. We have implemented 
impactful initiatives within our Commercial Warehouses, including energy efficient infrastructure, solar adoption, and 
resource reutilization. These efforts have not only led to significant carbon emission reductions and cost savings but 
have also contributed to the conservation of natural resources - saving 482 trees and redeploying materials worth 
₹ 3035 crore in FY25 alone.
We are equally proud of the strides made in promoting diversity and inclusion. With 34% of our warehouse workforce 
now comprising women and persons with disabilities, we are setting new benchmarks in inclusive employment. 
Our supplier diversity policy further strengthens our ecosystem by encouraging partnerships with marginalized and 
underrepresented enterprises.
In our supply chain, the Value Engineering Centre (VEC) in Pune has emerged as a key innovation. By repairing equipment 
deemed beyond repair, the VEC has achieved a 70% recovery rate and delivered ₹49 crore in cost avoidance - far 
exceeding industry averages.
We remain committed to transparent governance, safety first operations, and ESG led innovation. As we look ahead, 
our focus will remain on deepening our impact and driving sustainable, long-term value for all our stakeholders.
Additionally, our robust governance framework has ensured adherence to regulatory requirements and ethical business 
conduct, enhancing trust and credibility among stakeholders.
We remain steadfast in our commitment to ESG principles. Through collaborative efforts and innovative solutions, we 
are confident in our ability to create long-term value for our stakeholders while contributing to a sustainable future.
8. Details of the highest authority 
Mr. Akshaya Moondra
Chief Executive Officer 
akshaya.moondra@vodafoneidea.com
responsible for implementation and 
oversight of the Business Responsibility 
policy (ies).
9. Does the entity have a specified Committee 
A group of senior leaders across different business functions who meet 
on regular basis to discuss about the sustainability related issues.
of the Board/Director responsible for 
decision making on sustainability related 
issues? (Yes / No). If yes, provide details.
10.	 Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was 
Frequency 
undertaken by Director / 
(Annually/ Half Yearly/ 
Committee of the Board/ Any 
Quarterly/ Any other)
other Committee
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Review undertaken by concerned 
Quarterly
Performance against above policies and 
follow up action.
departments.
Review undertaken by concerned 
Quarterly
departments.
Compliance with statutory requirements of 
relevance to the principles, and rectification 
of any non-compliances.
11. 	Has the entity carried out 
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
No
independent assessment/evaluation 
of the working of its policies by an 
external agency? (Yes/No). If yes, 
provide name of the agency.
107
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 115 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
12.	 If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e., not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not consider the principles material to its business 
(Yes/No)
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate and 
implement the policies on specified principles (Yes/No)
Not Applicable
The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical 
resources available for the task (Yes/No)
It is planned to be done in the next Financial Year (Yes/No)
Any other reason (please specify)
Table 1- Weblinks of the Policies aligned to NGRBC Principles
Principle
Principle description
Vodafone Idea’s Policy(s)
Code of Conduct
Speak Up Policy
P1
Ethics, Transparency and Accountability: Businesses should 
conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that 
is Ethical, Transparent and Accountable
Energy and Carbon Management Policy  
(Available on Intranet)
P2
Product Lifecycle Sustainability: Businesses should provide goods 
and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
Code of Conduct
Privacy Policy
P3
Employee Well-being: Businesses should respect and promote 
the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains
Code of Conduct
P4
Stakeholder Engagement: Businesses should respect the interests 
of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
P5
Promoting Human Rights: Businesses should respect and promote 
Human Rights
Code of Conduct
Privacy Policy
HSW Policy (Available on Intranet)
P6
Protection of Environment: Businesses should respect and make 
efforts to protect and restore the environment
Code of Conduct 
Energy and Carbon Management Policy  
(Available on Intranet)
Code of Conduct
P7
Responsible Policy Advocacy: Businesses, when engaging in 
influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner 
that is responsible and transparent
Code of Conduct
CSR Policy
P8
Support Inclusive Growth: Businesses should promote inclusive 
growth and equitable development
Code of Conduct
Privacy Policy
P9
Providing Customer Value: Businesses should engage with and 
provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
SECTION C: Principle wise performance disclosure
This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in integrating the Principles and Core Elements with key 
processes and decisions. The information sought is categorized as “Essential” and “Leadership”. While the essential indicators are 
expected to be disclosed by every entity that is mandated to file this report, the leadership indicators may be voluntarily disclosed 
by entities which aspire to progress to a higher level in their quest to be socially, environmentally, and ethically responsible.
108


--- Page 116 ---
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Corporate
Governance Report
Financial
Statements
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
Principle 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, 
Transparent and Accountable.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the principles during the Financial Year:
Segment
Total number of 
Topics covered under the training 
%age of persons in 
training and awareness 
and its impact
respective category 
programmes held
covered by the 
awareness programmes
Board of Directors
1
• Sustainability definition, NGRBC 
100%
Principles.
• Strategy and Roadmap for BRSR 
including updates on BRSR Core and 
SEBI Circular.
2
• Awareness programme on Strategy and 
100%
Key Managerial 
Personnel
Roadmap for BRSR.
• Internal workplace post on Vi’s 
Commitment Towards Environmental 
Stewardship for creating awareness on 
ESG. 
Overall 100% coverage
Employees other 
than BOD and 
KMPs**
Internal ILT/VILT-92 
programs with 12731 
sessions 
Internal ILT / VILT on people development, 
trainings conducted on Company Policies 
includes:
-	 Code of Conduct
-	 POSH
-	 Health and Safety
-	 Data Security and Privacy
-	 Awareness programme on Strategy 
and Roadmap for BRSR including updates 
on BRSR Core and SEBI Circular on 20th 
December 2024 & 28th March 2025.
Gyanodaya programs – 
315 Participants 
Gyanodaya - Leadership Development 
Programs
GVC Coursera 29916 
completions 
GVC – Coursera and online courses and 
videos 138328 completions. 
Total Learning Hours 431347, Avg Learning 
Hours per employee is 41.6 hrs. in FY 2025.
Workers*
0
0
0
Note:
* VIL does not have any workers
** Employees covered - 9787 have completed training on CoC, HSW, Data security and Privacy and other company policies.
109
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 117 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
2.	
Details of Fines/ Penalties/ Punishment/ Award/ Compounding Fees/ Settlement Amount Paid in 
Proceedings (by the Entity or by Directors/ KMPs) with Regulators/ Law Enforcement Agencies/ Judicial 
Institutions, in the Financial Year (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality 
as specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosures Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website):
Monetary
NGRBC Principle
Name of the Regulatory/ 
Amount 
Brief of the 
Has an appeal 
Enforcement Agencies/ 
(In INR)
Case
been preferred?
Judicial Institution
(Yes / No)
Penalty/ Fine
NA
NA
0
NA
NA
Settlement
NA
NA
0
NA
NA
Compounding Fee
NA
NA
0
NA
NA
Non-Monetary
NGRBC Principle
Name of the Regulatory/ 
Amount 
Brief of the 
Has an appeal 
Enforcement Agencies/ 
(In INR)
Case
been preferred?
Judicial institution
(Yes / No)
Imprisonment
NA
NA
0
NA
NA
Punishment
NA
NA
0
NA
NA
	
Note: Hereinafter NA indicates “Not Applicable”
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where 
monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed:
Case Details
Name of the Regulatory/ Enforcement Agencies/ 
Judicial Institutions
Not applicable
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if 
available, provide a web-link to the policy.
	
VIL upholds the highest standards of integrity and transparency, as outlined in its Code of Conduct (CoC), which is 
accessible at “Code of Conduct”. The CoC incorporates a robust anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy that applies 
to Directors, full and part-time employees, subsidiaries, and any other authorized representatives of VIL. This policy 
ensures fair dealings in all interactions and routine business activities. It explicitly prohibits employees and their 
relatives from offering or accepting bribes in any form, whether as gifts, cash, facilities, or other means, either directly 
or indirectly. As per the policy, employees and their relatives are not permitted to offer or receive bribes in the form 
of gifts, cash, facilities, or any other manner, either directly or indirectly. 
 
• 
Due Diligence on Business Relationships: The policy outlines clear guidelines for conducting due diligence 
when selecting firms or entities for business collaborations, ensuring that risks associated with bribery and corruption 
are mitigated.
 
• 
Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Training: VIL mandates annual refresher training on its anti-corruption and 
anti-bribery policy for all employees, ensuring that they understand and commit to adhering to the policy’s guidelines.
 
• 
Whistle-blower Mechanism and Monitoring: VIL has implemented a whistle-blower mechanism that allows 
employees and third parties to report any concerns related to unethical business practices, including corruption 
and bribery, ensuring a transparent process for addressing such issues.
 
• 
Investigation and Consequences of Misconduct: VIL follows a formal procedure to investigate and resolve 
any complaints regarding bribery or corruption. Disciplinary actions are taken as per the Consequence Management 
Policy and are periodically reported to the Audit Committee of the Board. The severity of the breach determines 
the appropriate disciplinary action, which can include penalties, legal action, or even termination of employment 
or business contracts.
110


--- Page 118 ---
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Corporate
Governance Report
Financial
Statements
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
 
• 
Zero Tolerance for Facilitation Payments: VIL’s anti-bribery policy, which forms an integral part of its Code 
of Conduct, clearly states that the Company does not tolerate facilitation payments of any kind. Business partners, 
including vendors and suppliers, are expected to adhere to similar ethical standards when conducting business with 
VIL. All vendor contracts and purchase orders include clauses addressing ethical purchasing, bribery, and corruption.
5.	
Number of Directors/ KMPs/ Employees/ Workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any 
Law Enforcement Agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Directors
0
0
KMPs
0
0
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
6.	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
0
0
Number of complaints received in relation to issues 
of Conflict of Interest of the Directors.
0
0
Number of complaints received in relation to issues 
of Conflict of Interest of the KMPs.
7.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to Fines/ Penalties/ Action 
Taken by Regulators/ Law Enforcement Agencies/ Judicial Institutions, on cases of Corruption and 
Conflicts of Interest.
	
Not applicable, since no fines, penalties or actions were imposed by Regulatory, Law Enforcement Agencies or Judicial 
Authorities on cases related to Corruption and Conflicts of Interest.
8.	
Number of days of accounts payables (Accounts payable *365) / Cost of Goods/Services Procured):
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of days of accounts payables
223
249
	
Note: The number for FY 2023-24 revised due to regrouping done in FY 2024-25.	
	
Reasonable assurance is carried out by Emergent Ventures India Private Limited
9.	
Open-ness of business
	
Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers and related parties 
along with loans and advances & investments, with related parties:
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
a.
Purchases from trading houses as % of total purchases
NA
NA
Concentration 
of Purchases
b.
Number of trading houses where purchases are made from
NA
NA
c.
Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total 
purchases from trading houses 
NA
NA
a.
Sales to dealers/ distributors as % of total sales
28%
30%
Concentration 
of Sales
b.
Number of dealers/distributors to whom sales are made
13769
12897
7%
5%
c.
Sales to top 10 dealers/ distributors as % of total sales to 
dealers/ distributors
111
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 119 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Share of RPTs in a.
Purchases (Purchases with related parties/ Total purchases)*
19%
33%
b.
Sales (Sales to related parties/ Total Sales)
0.4%
1%
100%
100%
c.
Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to related 
parties/ Total loans & advances**
100%
100%
d.
Investments (Investments in related parties/ Total 
Investments made)***
Note: 
* Includes rental expenses and the same has been accounted for, in accordance with IND AS 116 in the financial statements.
** Represents loans given to subsidiaries by Vodafone Idea Limited 
*** Represents Equity Investment in subsidiaries by Vodafone Idea Limited
Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If 
yes, name of the external agency.
Yes. Reasonable assurance is carried out by Emergent Ventures India Private Limited
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the principles during the Financial Year: 
Total number of awareness 
Topics / principles covered 
Percentage of value chain partners 
programmes held
under the training
covered (by value of business done with 
such partners) under the awareness 
programmes
100% 
10 Events
VIL HSW norms and sensitization 
on Corporate sustainability and 
responsible business practices 
to all High-risk suppliers 
2.	
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of 
the Board? (Yes/No) If yes, provide details of the same.
	
As part of its strong governance framework, Vodafone Idea Limited (VIL) has established robust mechanisms to manage 
conflicts of interest. The Company’s Code of Conduct explicitly requires all Board Members to avoid situations where 
their personal interests could conflict with the interests of VIL.
	
In the event that an individual within the organization finds themselves in a situation that could potentially lead to a 
conflict between personal and professional interests, they are expected to declare the conflict, seek appropriate approval, 
and ensure it is duly recorded. To assist in evaluating such situations, individuals are encouraged to reflect on whether 
they would be comfortable explaining their actions to colleagues, friends, or even the media.
	
The Code of Conduct applies to all employees and members of the Board of Directors. It provides clear guidance on 
identifying, avoiding, and reporting both actual and perceived conflicts of interest.
	
In addition, VIL has in place a Related Party Transactions Policy that governs all interactions between the Company and 
Related Parties. The policy ensures appropriate reporting, approval, and disclosure mechanisms are followed. It also 
mandates that any Director with an interest in a Related Party Transaction must recuse themselves from discussions 
or decisions pertaining to such contracts or arrangements, thereby preventing any potential conflict of interest.
112


--- Page 120 ---
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Corporate
Governance Report
Financial
Statements
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage of R&D and Capital Expenditure (Capex) Investments in specific technologies to improve the
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and Capex Investments made
by the entity, respectively:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Details of improvements in environmental and 
social impacts
R&D
0
0
Since, there are no expenditures under these categories, 
details are not recorded.
Capex
0
0
2.	
a.	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing?		
Yes.	
b.	
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?		
100% of suppliers are onboarded at VIL through a structured evaluation process led by the Commercial function.
This includes reviewing the supplier’s Company profile to assess financial stability, conducting site visits where
necessary, and carrying out assessments based on defined processes. Cross-referencing with customers is also
undertaken on a case-by-case basis. All suppliers are required to comply with VIL’s policies, including the Code of
Conduct, Anti-Bribery Policy, Economic Sanctions and Trade Controls, Data Privacy and Protection Policy, Business
Resilience Policy, Information Security Policy, and Health, Safety and Wellbeing Policy. (Supplier Onboarding Link:
https://www.myvi.in/vodafone-idea/suppliers-and-partners).		
Additionally, VIL is committed to promoting equal opportunities by actively engaging with a diverse range of
marginalized and vulnerable suppliers through a dedicated supplier diversity policy.
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at
the end of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste:
Type of Waste
Method of Reclamation
 Not Applicable 
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes/No). If
yes, whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan
submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same:	
Not Applicable
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products
(for manufacturing industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details:
Results in 
public domain
NIC Code
Name of 
product/
service
% Of Total 
turnover 
contributed
Boundary for 
which LCA was 
conducted
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
agency 
No
113
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 121 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
2.	
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or 
disposal of your products / services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or 
through any other means, briefly describe the same alongwith action taken to mitigate the same:
Name of the Product/Service
Description of the risk concern
Action taken
Not applicable
3.	
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production 
 
(for manufacturing industry) or providing services (for service industry):
Indicate Input Material
Recycled or reused input material to total material
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Not Applicable
4.	
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, 
recycled, and safely disposed:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Re-used
Recycled
Safely 
Re-used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Disposed
Plastics (including packaging)
E-waste
Not Applicable
Hazardous waste 
Other waste 
5.	
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product 
category:
Indicate product category
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials as % of total 
products sold in respective category
Not Applicable
Principle 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their 
value chains
Essential Indicators
1.	
Measures undertaken for Employee Wellbeing – 
a.	
Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
% of employees covered by
Category
Total 
Health Insurance
Accident Insurance
Maternity Benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care Facilities
(A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (D)
% (D/A)
No. (E)
% (E/A)
No. (F)
% (F/A)
Permanent Employees
Male
8003
8003
100%
8003
100%
0
0%
8003
100%
8003
100%
Female
1784
1784
100%
1784
100%
1784
100%
0
0
1784
100%
Total
9787
9787
100%
9787
100%
1784
18.23%
8003
81.77%
9787
100%
114


--- Page 122 ---
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Corporate
Governance Report
Financial
Statements
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
% of employees covered by
Category
Total 
Health Insurance
Accident Insurance
Maternity Benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care Facilities
(A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (D)
% (D/A)
No. (E)
% (E/A)
No. (F)
% (F/A)
Other than Permanent Employees*
Male
6306
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Female
2365
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total
8671
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Note: *Insurance such as Group Personal Accident (GPA) & Group Medical Coverage (GMC) Policy for our other than permanent employees 
is provided by the respective 3rd party vendor.
b.	
Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
% of Workers covered by*
Total
Health Insurance
Accident Insurance
Maternity Benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care Facilities
Category
(A)
Number 
%
Number 
%
Number 
%
Number 
%
Number 
%
(B)
(B / A)
(C)
(C / A)
(D)
(D / A)
(E)
(E / A)
(F)
(F / A)
Permanent Workers
Male
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Female
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Other than Permanent Workers
Male
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Female
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
	
Note: *VIL does not have any workers
c.	
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other 
than permanent):
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
0.20%
0.21%
Cost incurred on well-being measures as a % of 
the total revenue of the Company
	
Note: Reasonable assurance is carried out by Emergent Ventures India Private Limited
2.	
Details of retirement benefits, for FY 2024-25 and FY 2023-24:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
No. of 
No. of 
Deducted and 
No. of 
No. of  
Deducted and 
workers 
deposited 
workers 
deposited 
Benefits
employees 
covered as 
covered as 
with the 
employees 
covered as 
covered as 
with the 
a % of total 
a % of total 
Authority 
a % of total 
a % of total 
Authority 
employees
workers
(Y/N/N.A.)
employees
workers
(Y/N/N.A.)
100%
PF
100%
100%  
Gratuity
100%  
(Subject to 
(Subject to 
Not  
Not  
the eligibility 
the eligibility 
Applicable
Yes
Applicable
Yes
criteria in the 
criteria in the 
Gratuity Act)
Gratuity Act)
ESI
0.00%
0.01%
Other 
-
-
-
-
-
-
115
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 123 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces:
	
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees any workers, as per the 
requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being 
taken by the entity in this regard.
	
Yes, the key office locations of the organization across India have accessible premises for differently abled employees 
as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. This also includes wheelchair support and 
reserved parking. 
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 
2016? If so, provide a web-link to the policy. 
	
Yes, VIL has an equal opportunity policy as per Right of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, as outlined in the Code 
of Conduct Policy. The Policy articulates the Company’s commitment to the principle of “equal opportunity” for all 
employees. This policy is also available to all employees through intranet. 
5.	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Permanent Employees
Permanent Workers*
Gender
Return to work 
Retention  
Return to work 
Retention  
rate
rate
rate
rate
Male
100%
94.05%
0
0
Female
97%
91.57%
0
0
Total
99%
93.43%
0
0
	
Note: *VIL does not have any workers
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees 
and worker? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Yes/No
(If yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
Not applicable
Other than Permanent Workers
Permanent Employees
Yes, VIL has a well-defined grievance redressal mechanism in place for all 
employees through its Speak Up Policy.
Other than Permanent Employees The Speak Up mechanism provides a structured platform to report any genuine 
concerns or grievances related to unethical, unprofessional, or unlawful conduct. 
This includes, but is not limited to, abuse of systems, conflict of interest, bribery, 
fraud, breach of data privacy, threats to health and safety, violation of policies/
processes, and anti-competitive practices such as price fixing.
The mechanism serves the following purposes:
• Offers a secure and confidential channel for employees and workers to raise 
concerns without fear of retaliation.
• Promotes a culture of responsible and protected whistle-blowing, 
encouraging individuals to report suspected violations of laws, VIL’s Code 
of Conduct, or the Company’s values.
• Enables timely investigation and resolution of complaints through a 
transparent and structured process.
• Acts as a feedback loop to improve internal controls and align processes 
with good governance practices.
The grievance mechanism is accessible to all employees, and is regularly 
communicated across the organization to ensure awareness and ease of access.
116


--- Page 124 ---
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Corporate
Governance Report
Financial
Statements
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
7.	
Membership of Employees and Worker in Association(s) or Unions recognized by the Listed Entity:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total  
No. of 
%  
Total  
No. of 
%  
employees 
employees 
employees 
employees 
(B / A)
(D / C)
/ workers in 
/ workers in 
/ workers in 
/ workers in 
Category
respective 
respective 
respective 
respective 
category (A)
category, who 
category 
category, who 
are part of 
(C)
are part of 
Association(s) 
Association(s) 
or Union (B)
or Union (D)
Total Permanent 
Employees
9787
0
0
9670
0
0
Male
8003
0
0
7767
0
0
Female
1784
0
0
1903
0
0
Total Permanent 
Workers
0
0
0
0
0
0
Male
0
0
0
0
0
0
Female
0
0
0
0
0
0
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
On Health
On Skill 
On Health
On Skill 
Category
Safety
Safety
Upgradation
Total (A)
Upgradation
Total (D)
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
No. (E)
% (E / D)
No. (F)
% (F / D)
Employees*
Male
14309
8003
56%
8003
56%
12167
7767
64%
7767
64%
Female
4149
1784
43%
1784
43%
3917
1903
49%
1903
49%
Total
18458
9787
53%
9787
53%
16084
9670
60%
9670
60%
Workers**
Male
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Female
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
	
Note:
	
*Total employees comprises of permanent (9787) and other than permanent (8671) employees. Training on Health Safety and Skill 
Upgradation for Other than Permanent employees is conducted by 3rd party vendor 
	
** VIL does not have any workers
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and workers:
FY 2024 – 25
FY 2023 – 24
Category
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D/C)
Employees*
Male
14309
8003
56%
12167
7767
64%
Female
4149
1784
43%
3917
1903
49%
Total
18458
9787
53%
16084
9670
50%
117
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 125 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
FY 2024 – 25
FY 2023 – 24
Category
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D/C)
Workers**
Male
0
0
0
0
0
0
Female
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total
0
0
0
0
0
0
	
Note: 
	
*Total employees comprises of permanent (9787) and other than permanent (8671) employees. For Other than Permanent employees 
performance and career development reviews is done by 3rd party vendor.
	
** VIL does not have any workers.
10.	 Health and Safety Management System:
	
a.	
Whether an occupational Health and Safety Management System has been implemented by the 
entity?(Yes/No). If yes, the coverage of such system?
	
	
Yes. VIL has an unwavering commitment and a robust management system for Health, Safety and Wellbeing (HSW) 
of all the people. VIL integrates the HSW agenda across its business operations using a three-pronged approach 
in terms of People, Processes and Properties (Equipment and Facilities). This approach safeguards all employees, 
employees of vendors, contractors and sub-contractors working for or on behalf of the organization from any 
untoward incidents. Few processes that are in place are provided below:
	
	
1.	
Safety Induction: Everyone working for Vi undergo Safety induction within 1st week of their joining;
	
	
2.	
Deep Dive Audits: Every Vi managed premises undergo HSW Deep Dive audit twice in the year;
	
	
3.	
Annual Maintenance Contracts: All critical equipment are covered under AMC;
	
	
4.	
Robust Contractor On-boarding Process: Every Contractor sign-off HSW agreement and submit a detailed 
safety plan for all their activities;
	
	
5.	
Tier Declaration: We don’t allow sub-contracting beyond tier-II;
	
	
6.	
Job Specific Trainings: Everyone working for Vi undergo Job Specific HSW Trainings before going on the field;
	
	
7.	
Safety Council Meetings: Every Cluster reviews their safety performance on a monthly basis during the safety 
council meetings;
	
	
8.	
High-Risk Contractors’ Meet: All the high-risk contractors meet with their contract coordinator on a periodic 
basis to share their concerns and seek support for ensuring robust implementation of HSW norms;
	
	
9.	
Training & Awareness Programs: Periodic training sessions are organized for employees to raise awareness 
about precautionary measures and protocols necessary for ensuring their safety and the safety of other 
relevant personnel on the premises; 
	
	
10.	 HSW Facilitation Program: Under this program the HSW team meets with the field team to understand their 
day to day work related challenges. In addition to this, the HSW team also tries to provide the safest possible 
solutions to carryout work; and
	
	
11.	 Incident Reporting and Root Cause Analysis: All Incidents arising out of routine and non-routine activities are 
thoroughly investigated where root causes are identified and appropriate corrective and preventive actions 
on the same are implemented in specified time frame to avoid recurrence.
	
b.	
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and 
non-routine basis by the entity?
	
VIL employs various tools to identify work related hazards such as ensuring Permit to Work, Safety Plan, Last 
Minute Risk Assessment, Job Safety Analysis, Deep Dive Audits, among others on a routine and non-routine basis 
to ensure work related hazards are identified and mitigated in a timely manner. 
c.	
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves 
from such risks. (Y/N)
	
Not Applicable, as VIL does not have any workers.
118


--- Page 126 ---
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Corporate
Governance Report
Financial
Statements
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
	
d.	
Do the employees/ workers of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare 
services? (Yes/ No)
	
	
Yes, Vodafone Idea Limited (VIL) provides access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services for its 
employees.
	
	
Key initiatives include:
 
 
• On-site Medical Room Facility: VIL offices are equipped with medical rooms where employees can receive basic 
medical assistance. A doctor visits the office on designated days each week, and employees can avail themselves 
of in-person consultations during these visits.
 
 
• Health Awareness and Doctor Sessions: Periodic medical awareness sessions are conducted by healthcare 
professionals on relevant health topics to educate and engage employees on preventive care and healthy living.
 
 
• Yoga and Wellness Programs: Virtual yoga sessions are organized regularly in the mornings to promote physical 
and mental wellness among employees.
 
 
• Health Insurance Coverage: All employees are covered under a comprehensive group health insurance policy, 
which includes coverage for hospitalization, maternity, and critical illnesses, as well as dependent coverage.
 
 
• Annual Health Check-ups: Preventive health check-ups are facilitated annually to support early detection and 
proactive health management.
 
 
• Employee Assistance Program (EAP): A confidential counseling service is available to support mental and 
emotional well-being, including assistance for personal or work-related concerns.
	
	
These services are designed to support the holistic well-being of employees beyond workplace-related health matters.
11.	 Details of safety related incidents:
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Employees*
0.120
0.042
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR)  
(per one million-person hours worked)
Workers**
0
0
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees*
5
2
Workers**
0
0
No. of fatalities
Employees*
0
0
Workers**
0
0
Employees*
0
1
High consequence work-related injury or  
ill-health (excluding fatalities)
Workers**
0
0
	
Note: 
	
* Includes other than permanent employees
	
** VIL does not have any workers
	
Reasonable assurance is carried out by Emergent Ventures India Private Limited
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace:
	
Yes, VIL has unwavering commitment and a robust management system for Health, Safety and Wellbeing (HSW) of all 
the people. VIL integrates the HSW agenda across the business operations using a three-pronged approach in terms 
of People, Processes and Properties (Equipment and Facilities). This approach safeguards all employees, employees 
of vendors, contractors and sub-contractors working for or on behalf of the organization from any untoward incidents. 
Few processes in place are provided below:
	
a.	
Safety Induction: All employees undergo Safety induction on day one of their joining;
	
b.	
Deep Dive Audits: Every VIL managed premises undergoes HSW Deep Dive audit twice in a year;
	
c.	
Annual Maintenance Contracts (AMC): All critical equipment are covered under AMC;
119
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 127 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
	
d.	
Robust Contractor On-boarding Process: Every Contractor sign-off HSW agreement and submit a detailed safety 
plan for all their activities;
	
e.	
Job Specific Trainings: All employees undergo Job Specific HSW Trainings before entering the field;
	
f.	
Safety Council Meetings: Every Clusters review their safety performance monthly during safety council meetings;
	
g.	
High Risk Contractors’ Meet: All the high-risk contractors convene with their contract coordinator on a periodic 
basis to share their concerns and seek support for ensuring robust implementation of HSW norms;
	
h.	
HSW Facilitation Program: Under this program, the HSW team engages with the field team to understand their 
day to day work related challenges as well as provides best practices for safe discharge of duties; 
	
i.	
Third Party Vendor Audits: Electrical inspection is conducted for all VIL Commercial warehouses to minimize the 
risk of accidents like fires due to short circuits; and
	
j.	
Incident Reporting and Root Cause Analysis: All Incidents arising out of routine and non-routine activities are 
thoroughly investigated where root causes are identified and appropriate corrective and preventive actions on the 
same are implemented in specified time frame to avoid recurrence.
13.	 Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed during 
Pending 
Remarks
Filed during 
Pending 
Remarks
the year
the year
resolution 
at the end 
resolution 
at the end 
of year
of year
Working Conditions
0
0
-
0
0
-
Health & Safety
0
0
-
0
0
-
14.	 Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed 
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
100% plants and offices are assessed by entity and third parties
Working Conditions
100% plants and offices are assessed by entity and third parties
15.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on 
significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions:
	
Vodafone Idea Limited has a robust mechanism for corrective actions when addressing safety related incidents. The 
following corrective actions are undertaken to minimize the risks to health and safety and maintain a safe working 
condition for all employees:
	
a.	
Portal Anchor Point provided for ensuring safe execution of work on roof top towers;
	
b.	
Insulated hand tools provided for safe handling of electrical equipment;
	
c.	
Man-Machine Segregation provided in warehouse;
	
d.	
In the process of addressing risk pertaining to loose objects in fault restoration vehicles; 
	
e.	
Addressed ergonomic risk pertaining to kitting operation by elevating the height of working platform;
	
f.	
All vehicles equipped with GPS and speed governor;
	
g.	
Relocated AC Outdoor units to reduce exposure from working at height;
	
h.	
In the process of incorporating VR modules for imparting HSW trainings;
120


--- Page 128 ---
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Corporate
Governance Report
Financial
Statements
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
	
i.	
Training sessions are organized for all Warehouse Third Party Logistic suppliers, covering topics such as safe practices 
in the warehouse and Commercial drivers are 100% trained on Defensive Drivers Training before commencement 
of trip; and
	
j.	
Project Maitree is introduced for Female staff in the VIL commercial warehouse. In this program Virtual/Physical 
meetings are held for all Third-Party Logistics Women/Girls/PWD for addressing any concern/issue they may have.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) 
Employees (Y/N) (B) Workers (Y/N)?
	
Yes, as a responsible organization, VIL provides life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of the death 
of employees. Since VIL has no workers, the segment is not applicable. 
2.	
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and 
deposited by the value chain partners:
	
VIL ensures that statutory dues are deducted and deposited by its value chain partners through a structured due diligence 
process. During the onboarding surveys, value chain partners are required to conduct a self-assessment confirming their 
compliance with applicable statutory requirements.
	
Additionally, VIL’s Code of Conduct for value chain partners mandates adherence to all relevant labour laws and regulations, 
including those related to payment of remuneration, minimum wages, statutory deductions, overtime compensation, 
and applicable employee benefits. Partners are expected to ensure compliance with these obligations throughout their 
engagement with VIL.
3.	
Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work related injury/ 
 
ill-health/ fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated 
and placed in suitable employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment:
Total no. of affected employees/ 
No. of employees/workers that are 
workers
rehabilitated and placed in suitable 
employment or whose family  
members have been placed in 
suitable Employment
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Employees
0
1
0
0
Workers*
-
-
-
-
	
Note:*VIL does not have any workers
4.	
Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the 
management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No) 
	
Yes, the organization provides employment extension in case of retirement on case-to-case basis depending on the 
business requirement.
5.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business  
done with such partners) that were assessed
Health and Safety Practices
100%
Working Conditions
100%
	
Note: 
	
Vendor declaration on HSW and Working conditions are taken during onboarding 
	
Permit to work to be raised is mandatory before starting any High-Risk activity
121
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 129 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks concerns arising 
from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners:
	
VIL adheres to a Supplier Consequence Management Matrix (CMM), which is shared with all suppliers. The CMM outlines 
that any non-compliance with VIL’s Health, Safety, and Wellbeing (HSW) Policy is not tolerated and may result in 
appropriate corrective measures.
Principle 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity:
VIL engages with all stakeholders – national, state, and local government, civil society organizations, academic 
institutions, corporate partners, implementing partners and beneficiaries – through a wide variety of tools. During 
the year, VIL participates in several events, consultations organized by other civil society organizations which help in 
identifying the key stakeholders. The stepwise processes for identifying key stakeholder groups are as follows:
	
i.	
Identification of potential partners based on business requirements, due diligence done by business teams, who 
can serve the desired purpose. There are a set of discussions done by the business teams to understand partner 
capabilities, interest in doing business, credentials, operating models, etc.
	
ii.	
The Commercial function identifies key stakeholders relevant to supply chain management by coordinating 
with business and cross-functional teams. Based on business needs, potential partners are shortlisted, and 
due diligence is conducted, including commercial evaluations, technical assessments where applicable, and 
 
third-party risk screening through the Dow Jones Risk Center. Engagements are finalized in line with the Delegation 
of Authority framework.
2.	
List of stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each 
stakeholder group:
Stakeholder Group
Whether identified 
Channels of communication 
Frequency of 
Purpose and scope of 
as Vulnerable & 
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
engagement 
engagement including key 
Marginalized Group. 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
(Annually/ Half 
topics and concerns raised 
(Yes/No)
Community Meetings, Notice 
yearly/ Quarterly / 
during such engagement
Board, Website, Other)
others)
Quarterly/Ongoing
• Address queries of investors 
on operations of VIL.
Investors
No
Electronic Correspondence, Press 
Briefings, Analyst Meets and 
Earning Calls.
• Promote transparency 
Annually/Ongoing
Shareholders 
No
Annual General Meeting and 
Extra-ordinary General Meeting.
among existing and potential 
investors.
Ongoing and Regular
Sensitize on services being 
offered
Customers
No
SMS, Electronic Correspondence 
and interactions during 
business field visits are provided 
to customers regularly on 
upgradation of services, plans, as 
well any discontinuations.
Suppliers
Yes
Electronic Correspondence, 
Annual Meetings.
On-Going 
The engagement focuses on 
Sensitization Sessions, Policy 
Communication, and Supplier 
Assessments. Key topics raised 
include Policy Compliance, 
Code of Conduct ESG, and 
Health & Safety Concerns. 
122


--- Page 130 ---
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Corporate
Governance Report
Financial
Statements
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
Stakeholder Group
Whether identified 
Channels of communication 
Frequency of 
Purpose and scope of 
as Vulnerable & 
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
engagement 
engagement including key 
Marginalized Group. 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
(Annually/ Half 
topics and concerns raised 
(Yes/No)
Community Meetings, Notice 
yearly/ Quarterly / 
during such engagement
Board, Website, Other)
others)
Regulators
 No
E-mails, Letters, Meetings etc.
As per the needs and 
requirements
Related to operation of 
telecom sector
Community/NGO
Yes
Meetings, e-mails, pamphlets
Monthly 
Grievance redressal / 
project implementation of Vi 
Foundation
Employees
No
• Events and Sessions
• Learning and Development
On-Going and 
Continuous
• Regular employee 
• Employee recognition and 
communication forums
engagement activities
• Engagement e-mails
• Employee performance review 
and career development
• Annual employee surveys
• Employee safety and well-
• Townhall deliberation
being
Daily 
Business queries
Distributors/Retailers 
No
Physical visit, e-mails, SMS, 
WhatsApp
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and 
social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board:
	
VIL maintains a constant dialogue between the Board and the leadership with different sections of the civil societies. 
Before the commencement of engagement with any organization, a problem statement is identified where a meaningful 
intervention leveraging VIL’s strength in technology can be developed and scaled-up. After the problem statement 
has been well articulated, appropriate implementing organizations are identified that undergo thorough due diligence 
before any formal engagement. At each stage of the project, VIL’s Board and Senior Management are apprised using 
various tools such as meetings, field visits, and participation in high profile events. 
2.	
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, 
and social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from 
stakeholders on these topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity:
	
Yes, VIL follows a comprehensive consultation framework to identify and engage different sections of the civil society to 
deepen our understanding of key areas of our intervention. VIL regularly participates in external meetings, conferences, 
events and other platforms to engage with civil society organizations and adapt to major trends emerging in the space. 
3.	
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ 
marginalized stakeholder groups:
	
In alignment with VIL’s vision to “Create world-class digital experiences to connect and inspire every Indian to build 
a better tomorrow,” the Company has taken proactive steps to engage with vulnerable and marginalized stakeholder 
groups. VIL is a pioneer in the telecom industry, having created employment opportunities for Women and People with 
Disabilities (PWD) in Commercial Warehouses across India. Over the past three years, the Company has achieved 38% 
diversity, increasing the number of female employees from 74 to 176 and PWD employees from 6 to 23. Additionally, 
VIL is committed to fostering equal opportunities for all stakeholders. The Company has a dedicated policy to engage 
with a diverse range of marginalized and vulnerable suppliers.
123
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 131 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
Principle 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Essential Indicators
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the 
entity:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
No. of 
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. of 
% (D/C)
Category
employees’ 
employees’ 
workers 
workers 
covered (B)
covered (D)
Employees*
Permanent
9787
9787
100%
9670
9670
100%
8671
0
0
6414
0
0
Other than 
permanent**
Total Employees
18458 
9787
53%
16084 
9670
60%
Workers***
Permanent
0
0
0
0
0
0
Other than 
permanent
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total Workers
0
0
0
0
0
0
	
Note:
	
* Covered in COC module which is done by employees every 2 - 3 years, New Joiners have to complete COC within 90 days of joining
	
** For other than permanent employees mandatory training is provided by 3rd party vendor.
	
*** 	
VIL does not have any workers
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Equal to 
More than 
Equal to 
More than 
Category
Minimum Wages
Minimum Wages
Minimum Wages
Total 
Minimum Wages
Total
(A)
(D)
Number 
%  
Number 
%  
Number 
%  
Number 
%  
(B)
(B/A)
(C)
(C/A)
(E)
(E/D)
(F)
(F/D)
Employees
Permanent
9787
0
0
9787
100%
9670
0
0
9670
100%
Male
8003
0
0
8003
100%
7767
0
0
7767
100%
Female
1784
0
0
1784
100%
1903
0
0
1903
100%
Other than permanent
8671
0
0
8671
100%
6414
0
0
6414
100%
Male
6306
0
0
6306
100%
4400
0
0
4400
100%
Female
2365
0
0
2365
100%
2014
0
0
2014
100%
Workers*
Permanent
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Male
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Female
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Other than permanent
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Male
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Female
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Note: * VIL does not have any workers	
124


--- Page 132 ---
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Corporate
Governance Report
Financial
Statements
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
3.	
Details of remuneration/salary/wages
a.	
Median remuneration/ wages:
Male
Female
Number
Median 
Number
Median 
remuneration/ 
remuneration/ 
salary/ wages 
salary/ wages 
of respective 
of respective 
category
category
(in `)
(in `)
Board of Directors (BoD)
11
NA
1
NA
Key Managerial Personnel (KMP)
3
4,73,93,426
0
0
Employees other than BoD and KMP
8000
21,10,825
1784
17,91,067
Workers*
0
0
0
0
Note: * VIL does not have any workers
b. 	 Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages
15.50%
15.33%
	
Note: Reasonable assurance is carried out by Emergent Ventures India Private Limited
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or 
issues caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No) 
	
Yes, the Human Resources Function of the Company is responsible for addressing human rights issues. All the issues 
related with human rights are addressed following comprehensive approach in a very amicable and impartial way. 
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues:
We have institutionalized a mechanism to allow for reporting and remediation of all human rights violations through 
our Speak Up Policy. The Speak Up mechanism acts as a dynamic source of information which will help in realigning 
various processes and take corrective actions as part of good governance practice. The mechanisms to redress 
grievances related to human rights issues includes a comprehensive approach which provides a platform & mechanism 
to voice genuine concerns or grievances without any fear of reprisal.
6.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed 
Pending 
Remarks
Filed 
Pending 
Remarks
during the 
during the 
year
resolution 
at the end 
year
resolution 
at the end 
of year
of year
Sexual Harassment
6
0
-
6
0
-
Discrimination at workplace
0
0
-
0
0
-
Child Labor
0
0
-
0
0
-
0
0
-
0
0
-
Forced Labor/ Involuntary 
Labor
Wages
0
0
-
0
0
-
0
0
-
0
0
-
Other human rights related 
issues
125
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 133 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
7.	
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
6
6
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH) 
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees / workers
Less than 1 %*
Less than 1%**
Complaints on POSH upheld
4
4
	
Note:
	
*{(6/1847)*100} 0.32%
	
**{(6/1789)*100} 0.34%
	
Reasonable assurance is carried out by Emergent Ventures India Private Limited
8.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases:
	
As per the guidelines of the Speak Up Policy a comprehensive approach is designed to offer protection, anonymity 
and confidentiality to the complainant. VIL affirms that it will not allow any complainant to be victimized for making 
any complaint. Any kind of victimization of the whistle-blower that is brought to the notice of the Value Standards 
Committee (VSC) will be treated as an act warranting disciplinary action and will be treated as such. We also have a 
provision to transfer the complainant workplace / role to prevent against victimization / retaliation.
9.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Y/N)
	
Yes, the contract agreement includes provisions for adherence to labor laws, fair payment practices, minimum wage 
regulations, compensation acts, to ensure compliance and protect employee rights.
10.	 Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed  
(By entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labor
Not recorded
Forced/involuntary labor
Not recorded
Sexual harassment
Not recorded
Discrimination at workplace
Not recorded
Wages
Not recorded
Others
Not recorded
11.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising 
from the assessments at Question 10 above.
	
No risks or concerns were accounted post the internal assessment of VIL’s operations for the human rights parameters.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights 
grievances/complaints:
	
No changes or modifications have taken place in the reporting period. 
2.	
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due diligence conducted:
	
VIL provides conducive workplace to all its employees by providing utmost protection to human rights of its employees. 
However, VIL has not conducted any human rights due diligence. 
3.	
Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of 
the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
	
Yes
126


--- Page 134 ---
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Corporate
Governance Report
Financial
Statements
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
4.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners: 
% of value chain partners (by value of business  
done with such partners) that were assessed
Sexual Harassment*
100%
Discrimination at workplace*
100%
Child Labor**
100%
Forced Labor/Involuntary Labor**
100%
Wages**
100%
Others
-
	
Note:
	
* 	 All the above are part of Supplier Code of Conduct
	
**	 100% of our Vendors are required to give endorsement on the above, declaration is taken through the Vendor Compliance Portal 
during onboarding.
5.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks /concerns arising 
from the assessments at Question 4 above:
	
Following Actions are taken to address significant risks/concerns:
	
-	
Supplier code of conduct explicitly addresses above issues and sets clear expectations and standards from value 
chain partners; and
	
-	
Various whistleblower mechanisms, overseen by independent third parties, are provided to report unethical 
behavior or human rights concerns without fear of reprisal.
Principle 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment 
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
From renewable sources (in GJ)
Total electricity consumption (A)
169,092 GJ
149,816 GJ
Total fuel consumption (B)
NA
NA
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
NA
NA
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C)
169,092 GJ
149,816 GJ
From non-renewable sources (in GJ)
Total electricity consumption (D)
1,664,905 GJ
17,10,550GJ
Total fuel consumption (E)
 113,598 GJ
1,19,783 GJ
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
NIL
NIL
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F)
1,778,502 GJ
18,30,333 GJ
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)**
1,947,515 GJ
19,80,149 GJ
0.000004513 
0.0000046789
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover  
(Total energy consumed / revenue from operations) 
127
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 135 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
0.00009323
0.0000966655
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing 
Power Parity (PPP)* (Total energy consumed / Revenue from 
operations adjusted for PPP)
-
-
Energy intensity in terms of physical output Energy intensity 
(optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
Note: 
*PPP Conversion Factor for both financial years is considered as per IMF, wherein latest factor is of 2025 for India is mentioned as 
20.66 https://www.imf.org/external/datamapper/PPPEX@WEO/OEMDC
**Institutional spaces wherever electricity bills are not available, circle average values/ loads have been considered
Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes. Reasonable assurance is carried out by Emergent Ventures India Private Limited
2.	
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, 
Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set 
under the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial 
action taken, if any.
	
Not applicable
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water Withdrawn by the source (KL)
i. Surface Water
0
0
ii. Ground Water
60,298 KL
0
iii. 3rd Party Water
 110,072 KL
159,749.80 KL
iv. Seawater/ desalinated water
0
0
v. Other sources
0
0
Total Vol of Water Withdrawn (in kiloliters) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
 170,370 KL
159,749.80 KL
Total Vol of Water Consumed (KL)*
 68,337 KL
49,637.69 KL
Water intensity per rupee of turnover. 
(Total water consumption / Revenue from operations)
0.1583 KL/Mn
0.1173 KL/Mn
 3.2714 KL/$Mn 
2.4232 KL/$Mn
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing 
Power Parity (PPP) 
(Total water consumption / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)*
Water intensity in terms of physical output
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
Note: 
* Since we are in multi-tenanted premises at most of the locations, we do not have separate metering for water withdrawal and discharge. 
For FY 2024-25, water withdrawal and consumption is considered for retail stores as per the CGWA norms.
** PPP Conversion Factor for both financial years is considered as per IMF, wherein latest factor is of 2025 for India is mentioned as 
20.66 https://www.imf.org/external/datamapper/PPPEX@WEO/OEMDC
Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency.
		
Yes. Reasonable assurance is carried out by Emergent Ventures India Private Limited
128


--- Page 136 ---
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Corporate
Governance Report
Financial
Statements
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
4.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (KL)
(i) To Surface Water
 - No treatment
 - With treatment (please specify level of treatment)
(ii) To Groundwater
 - No treatment
 - With treatment (please specify level of treatment)
(iii) To Seawater
 - No treatment
 - With treatment (please specify level of treatment)
(iv) Sent to third parties
 - No treatment
 - With treatment (please specify level of treatment)
(v) Others
 - No treatment
102,033 KL
110,112.12 KL
 - With treatment (please specify level of treatment)
Total Water discharged (KL)
102,033 KL 110,112.12 KL
	
Note: 
	
Since water is used for domestic use only, hence no treatment is required.
Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes. Reasonable assurance is carried out by Emergent Ventures India Private Limited
5.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage 
and implementation.
	
No
6.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity:
Parameter
Please specify unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
NOx
SOx
Particulate Matter (PM)
Does not Record
Persistent Organic Pollutants (POP)
-
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC)
-
Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAP)
-
Others 
-
7.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Metric tonnes of 
8,537.88
9,341.96
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, 
CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
CO2 equivalent
Metric tonnes of 
3,36,218.27
3,40,209.31
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, 
CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
CO2 equivalent
129
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 137 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Metric tonnes of 
0.0000008
0.0000009
CO2 equivalent
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupee of turnover 
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions / Revenue 
from operations)
Metric tonnes of 
0.00001650
0.00001706
CO2 equivalent
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per rupee 
of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)*
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions / Revenue 
from operations adjusted for PPP)
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in 
terms of physical output
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity (optional)
– the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
	
Note: 
	
Institutional spaces wherever electricity bills are not available, circle average values/ loads have been considered
	
* PPP Conversion Factor for both financial years is considered as per IMF, wherein latest factor is of 2025 for India is mentioned as 
20.66 https://www.imf.org/external/datamapper/PPPEX@WEO/OEMDC
	
Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency.
	
Yes. Reasonable assurance is carried out by Emergent Ventures India Private Limited
8.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If yes, then provide details.
VIL continuously strives to reduce its GHG emissions across operations and mitigate its negative impacts on the 
environment and society at large. Some of the key initiatives implemented in line with the foundational objectives 
laid down as part of Green Idea as well as VIL’s Energy and Carbon Management Policy include:
 
• Considering energy performance when operating VIL’s infrastructure.
 
• Continue with the procurement of most energy efficient Telecom Hardware.
 
• Encouraging Infrastructure Provider partners to adopt low carbon operations.
	
As a result, VIL has achieved: 
 
• Over 75% of VIL BTS portfolio - Outdoor BTS (20% reduction in energy consumption compared to Indoor BTS);
 
• Diesel elimination project initiated by VIL to reduce carbon footprint currently continued at over 11,700 sites;
 
• 100% of the telecom hardware procured by the Company is low power consuming telecom hardware;
 
• New Sites Deployment on Sharing Basis: >95% of the sites deployed were at existing 2G sites and/or shared sites 
as part of the mandated initiative to reduce carbon emissions and energy consumption;
 
• The Company continued active equipment energy saving initiatives like power saving features during low traffic 
period. All new packet-core deployments as well as new MSS/VoLTE circuit-core deployments use cloud architecture; 
and
 
• RET – solar based generation at over 400 tower co-owned sites.
9.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
19.09
32.23
E-waste (B)
351.83
 462.64
Bio-medical waste (C)
-
Construction and demolition waste (D)
 -
Battery waste (E)
1447.38
 854.38
130


--- Page 138 ---
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Corporate
Governance Report
Financial
Statements
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Radioactive waste (F)
 
412.47
 160.78
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G) (Jelly filled cable, Insulated wires, 
Insulated cables, copper cables, any other cables, used led acid batteries, used oil, 
remaining containers and cur cables)
2056.72
 989.67
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). (Break-up by composition i.e., by materials 
relevant to the sector) (All Iron materials, Furniture, cabinets, microwave antenna, 
GSM antenna, wooden items and Rack)
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H)
4287.50
2499.70
0.010 MT/Mn
0.005 MT/Mn
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover (Total waste generated / Revenue from 
operations) tonnes / million rupees of turnover
0.21 MT/$Mn
0.12 MT/$Mn
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP) (Total waste generated / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)*
Waste intensity in terms of physical output
NA
NA
Waste intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the 
entity
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other 
recovery operations (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) Recycled
0
0
(ii) Re-used
0
0
(iii) Other recovery operations
0
0
Total
0
0
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of disposal Method
(i) Incineration
0
0
(ii) Landfilling
0
0
(iii) Other disposal operations**
4287.50
2499.70
Total
4287.50
2499.70
Note: 
* PPP Conversion Factor for both Financial Year is considered as per IMF, wherein latest factor is of 2025 for India is mentioned as 
20.66 https://www.imf.org/external/datamapper/PPPEX@WEO/OEMDC
** Waste (Scrap) is sold off to authorized scrap vendors who have been certified by the relevant Government /Regulatory Authority
Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes. Reasonable assurance is carried out by Emergent Ventures India Private Limited
10.	 Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy 
adopted by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and 
processes and the practices adopted to manage such wastes:
	
At Vodafone Idea Limited (VIL), site return materials are systematically classified into four categories: usable, faulty 
repairable, obsolete, and scrap. Emphasis is placed on maximizing reutilization by repairing and redeploying usable 
and repairable items. In FY25, VIL successfully redeployed materials worth approximately ₹ 3,035 crores (based on 
standard prices), reflecting our strong focus on asset optimization and cost efficiency. For materials that are deemed 
obsolete and beyond repair, VIL adopts a robust and environmentally responsible scrap disposal management process.
131
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 139 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
	
Scrap Management Process
	
1.	
Identification & Segregation:
	
	
Scrap items are first identified by the functional users. These items are then segregated based on:
	
	
o	
Material composition: e.g., metal, plastic,
	
	
o	
Type of waste: solid, hazardous, e-waste, and plastic
	
2.	
Scrap Note & Disposal:
	
	
A scrap note is prepared and routed through the designated approval workflow within VIL. Once approved, 
disposal is carried out through authorized scrap vendors—certified by relevant Government/Regulatory bodies 
and holding necessary licenses. These vendors are responsible for ensuring that the material is handled, disposed 
of, or repurposed in compliance with environmental and societal regulations.
	
Value Engineering Center (VEC) – Pune
	
To further enhance value recovery, VIL has set up a dedicated Value Engineering Centre (VEC) in Pune. The VEC 
specializes in the evaluation and repair of equipment classified as “Repair Not Possible (RNP)” by OEMs. Rather 
than scrapping such equipments, it is redirected to the VEC for further examination and repair. The center has been 
proven highly effective, achieving a recovery rate of 70%, which is significantly higher than the industry average of 
30% seen with other local repair partners. Approximately, around 9,000 cards are categorized as RNP annually across 
all clusters. As of March 25, the VEC has delivered a total cost avoidance of ₹49 crore, underscoring its vital role in 
resource optimization and sustainability.
11.	 If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife 
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) 
where environmental approvals / clearances are required:
Location of 
Type of 
Whether the conditions of environmental approval / clearance 
Sr.  
No.
operations/
operations
are being complied with? (Y/N). If no, the reasons thereof and 
offices
corrective action taken, if any
Not Applicable
12.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable 
laws, in the current financial year:
Name and 
EIA Notification 
Date
Whether conducted 
Results 
Relevant 
brief details of 
No.
by independent 
communicated 
Weblink
project
external agency 
in public domain 
(Yes / No)
(Yes / No)
No assessment has been undertaken in Financial Year 2024-25
13.	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable Environmental Law/ Regulations/ Guidelines in India, such 
as the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 
Environment Protection Act and Rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances
Specify the Law/ 
Provide details 
Any fines / penalties / 
Corrective action 
Sr. 
No.
Regulation/Guidelines 
actions taken by regulatory 
taken, if any
which was not 
of the non-
compliance
agencies such as Pollution 
complied with
Control Boards or by Courts
VIL ensures compliance with all regulatory and statutory requirements as per Environment and Water Protection 
Act, including Environment Protection Act, Water and Air Act and Rules, Hazardous Waste Rules, among others.
132


--- Page 140 ---
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Corporate
Governance Report
Financial
Statements
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
Leadership Indicators
1. 	 Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kiloliters):
	
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
	
Not Applicable. VIL’s operation sites are not located in water stressed regions nor water is withdrawn, consumed, nor 
discharged from any water stressed areas.
	
a.	
Name of the area: Not Applicable
	
b.	
Nature of operations: Not Applicable
	
c.	
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge:
Parameter
FY 2024-25 
FY 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) Surface water
(ii) Groundwater
(iii) Third party water
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water
(v) Others
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
Not Applicable as VIL’s sites are not 
located in any water stress areas.
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / 
turnover)
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the 
entity
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment 
 
(in kilolitres)
(i) Into Surface water
- No treatment
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(ii) Into Groundwater
- No treatment
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(iii) Into Seawater
- No treatment
Not Applicable as VIL’s sites are not 
located in any water stress areas
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(iv) Sent to third parties
- No treatment
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(v) Others
- No treatment
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
133
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 141 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
2.	 Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Metric tonnes of 
Total Scope 3 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
CO2 equivalent
Company has not yet computed 
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
Scope 3 emissions.
Metric tonnes of 
Total Scope 3 emission intensity (optional) – the 
relevant metric may be selected by the entity
CO2 equivalent
3. 	 With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators 
above, provide details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas 
 
along-with prevention and remediation activities:
	
Not applicable. None of the VIL’s operations are located in or around any ecologically sensitive areas.
4.	
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve 
resource efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please 
provide details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format: 
Outcome of the initiative
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, may be 
provided along-with summary)
Initiative 
undertaken
• Double side printing – 3.06 Mn paper, 356 No 
of trees & ` 15.34 Lac saving 
Waste  
Management
Reduce Paper Waste Tree savings: Double sided 
printing, use of Re-cycled paper, Wastage Packing 
Materials Reutilized
• Use of recycled paper - 126 Nos of trees 
• Recycled and use of packaging material - 51 
Tons of cardboard, Wood & Plastic reutilization
E-Waste 
Initiative
VIL’s scrap and asset recovery initiatives, including 
redeployment and the VEC-led repair of RNP 
equipment, have significantly contributed to our 
circular economy goals. 
These initiatives have led to reduced material 
waste, lower e-waste generation, and minimized 
environmental footprint—strengthening our 
commitment to sustainable operations
Water initiative
Renovated washrooms at multiple circle offices—
including Indore, TNC, and KWB—where we ensured 
the installation of water-efficient fixtures
Replaced conventional manual dishwashing processes 
with energy- and water-efficient dishwashers.
Traditional water taps, which typically discharge 
2.2 gallons per minute (GPM), were replaced 
with new fixtures operating at 1.5 GPM, thereby 
reducing water flow without compromising 
functionality.
Handwashing typically consumes 10–15 gallons 
of water per cycle, the newly installed dishwashers 
operate with only 3–4 gallons per cycle, resulting 
in a substantial reduction in water usage and 
effluent discharge.
5.	
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ 
web link.
	
Yes, VIL has a Physical Security Policy (available on intranet) that ensures the implementation of physical security 
measures that needs to be adopted across all facilities of VIL. The policy ensures acceptable levels of physical security 
and safety of employees, its service partners, associates, physical assets, and those visiting the VIL premises. This 
policy covers the physical security, aspects of access control, CCTV surveillance, fire safety measures and pandemic 
measures which need to be adopted to provide a safe and secure environment for the staff and successful & efficient 
functioning of the business. This policy has to be complied by all the employees, management, affiliates, associates, 
contractors, and third party that are directly or indirectly associated with the business of VIL. 
134


--- Page 142 ---
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Corporate
Governance Report
Financial
Statements
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
6.	
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. 
What mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard?
	
No significant adverse impact was identified on the environment arising from VIL’s value chain.
7. 	 Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed 
for environmental impacts:
	
100% value chain partners were assessed for environmental impacts. As a part of VIL Policies, vendor confirmation 
on abiding to relevant Environment Polices is taken during the Vendor Onboarding stage.
8.	
How many Green Credits have been generated or procured: 
	
a.	
By the listed entity: Nil 
	
b.	
By the top ten (in terms of value of purchases and sales, respectively) value chain partners: Nil
Principle 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner 
that is responsible and transparent
Essential Indicators
1.a.	 Number of affiliations with Trade and Industry Chambers/ Associations:
As one of the leading mobile operators in the country, Vodafone Idea advocates policies that can spur socioeconomic 
growth as well as the growth of the telecom sector, promoting development, inclusive growth, and access to information 
through programs such as Digital India. Vodafone Idea is an active player in the 9 national and international industry 
associations listed in below table (either directly or through its subsidiaries). 
b.	
List the top 10 Trade and Industry Chambers/ Associations (determined based on the total members of 
such body) the entity is a member of/ affiliated to:
Reach of Trade and Industry 
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Trade and Industry Chambers/  
Associations
Chambers/ Associations 
(State/ National)
1
The Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (ASSOCHAM)
National
2
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI)
National
3
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
National
4
Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI)
National
5
GSM Association (GSMA)
International
6
Digital Infrastructure Providers Association (DIPA)
National
7
UK India Business Council (UKIBC)
India/United Kingdom
8
Telecom Sector Skill Council of India (TSSC)
National
9
Telecommunications Standards Development Society, India (TSDSI)
National
Through its association with the above bodies, Vodafone Idea actively participates in discussions relating to policy 
development on several issues pertaining to the telecom industry, including new Telecom Act, the Digital Personal 
Data Protection Act, development of a world class communications infrastructure, ease of doing business, Right of 
Way (RoW) policies & processes, promoting broadband and Data Economy, enabling the evolution and development 
of emerging technologies, etc.
VIL is a key member of the COAI. It presently holds the Chair of COAI. Its senior executives are Chair/ Co-chair of 
various Committees of the industry body.
VIL through the Head Regulatory & Corporate Affairs Officer is on the governing body of Telecom Sector Skill Council. 
The Company is also represented on various industry, including as the Chair of Telecom Task Force in FICCI. 
135
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 143 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
VIL is also associated with the GSMA and works closely with the association on various industry programs such as 5G, 
AI, M2M, standards, spectrum related issues such as identification of globally harmonized bands for IMT, reasonable 
approach to spectrum pricing, etc.
The Company is also involved in the activities of TSDSI, which is a not-for-profit legal entity in a PPP mode with 
participation from stakeholders including Governments, service providers, vendors, manufacturers, academic institutes 
and research laboratories.	
Through its active participation in various industry bodies, Vodafone Idea advocates on various telecom industry
 
issues and also attempts to drive a consensus driven approach to further the Government’s vision of a Digital India. 
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct 
by the entity, based on adverse orders from Regulatory Authorities:
Name of Authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
NIL
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
Public policy 
Method resorted 
Whether 
Frequency of Review 
Web Link, if 
Sr. 
No.
advocated
for such advocacy
information 
by Board (Annually/ 
available
available in public 
Half yearly/ Quarterly 
domain? (Yes/No)
/ Others – please 
specify)
Link
Yes
As and when  
required
1
Economic, 
Regulations, 
Ease of Doing 
Business
Draft The 
Telecommunication 
Tariff (71st 
Amendment) order, 
2025
Link
Yes
As and when  
required
2
Economic, 
Regulations, 
Ease of Doing 
Business
Draft The 
Telecommunication 
Tariff (Seventieth 
Amendment) Order, 
2024
Link
Yes
As and when  
required
3
Economic, 
Regulations, 
Ease of Doing 
Business
TRAI Consultation 
Paper on Revision of 
National Numbering 
Plan
Link
Yes
As and when  
required
4
Network, 
Spectrum and 
Licensing
TRAI Consultation 
Paper on The Terms 
and Conditions 
of Network 
Authorizations to be 
Granted Under the 
Telecommunications 
Act, 2023
136


--- Page 144 ---
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Corporate
Governance Report
Financial
Statements
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
Web Link, if 
available
Sr. 
No.
Public policy 
advocated
Method resorted 
for such advocacy
Whether 
information 
available in public 
domain? (Yes/No)
Frequency of Review 
by Board (Annually/ 
Half yearly/ Quarterly 
/ Others – please 
specify)
Yes
As and when 
required
Link unavailable 
due to transition 
to new website
5
Network, 
Spectrum and 
Licensing
TRAI Consultation 
Paper on the 
Framework 
for Service 
Authorizations to be 
Granted Under the 
Telecommunications 
Act, 2023
Yes
As and when 
required
Link
6
Network, 
Spectrum and 
Licensing
TRAI Consultation 
Paper on Auction of 
Frequency Spectrum 
in 37-37.5 GHz, 
37.5-40 GHz, and 
42.5-43.5 GHz 
bands Identified for 
IMT
Yes
As and when 
required
Link
7
Technology and 
Consumer Affairs
TRAI Consultation 
Paper on Terms 
and Conditions for 
the Assignment 
of Spectrum for 
Certain Satellite-
Based Commercial 
Communication 
Services
Yes
As and when 
required
Link
8
Technology and 
Consumer Affairs
TRAI Consultation 
Paper on Review 
of the Telecom 
Commercial 
Communications 
Customer Preference 
Regulations, 2018
Yes
As and when 
required
Link
9
Technology and 
Consumer Affairs
TRAI Consultation 
Paper on Review of 
Telecom Consumers 
Protection 
Regulations (TCPR), 
2012
137
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 145 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
Public policy 
Method resorted 
Whether 
Frequency of Review 
Web Link, if 
Sr. 
No.
advocated
for such advocacy
information 
by Board (Annually/ 
available
available in public 
Half yearly/ Quarterly 
domain? (Yes/No)
/ Others – please 
specify)
Link
10
Technology and 
Consumer Affairs
Yes
As and when  
required
TRAI Consultation 
Paper on the Issues 
Related to Critical 
Services in the M2M 
Sector, and Transfer 
of Ownership of 
M2M SIMs
11
Technology and 
Consumer Affairs
Yes
As and when  
required
Not available in 
public domain
MeitY Consultation 
on Digital Personal 
Data Protection Act, 
2023 and Rules, 
2025
The Company plays an important role in advocating issues of the telecom sector and promoting a progressive and fair 
telecom policy. The senior management of the Company actively participates in various industry fora and is involved 
with various stakeholders for discussions regarding formulating new policies, reviewing and modifying relevant 
policies. The Company currently does not have a stated policy on advocacy; however, it continues to monitor and 
follow the business and regulatory environment.
Principle 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable 
laws, in the current financial year.
Name and brief details of project
SIA
Date of
Whether conducted 
Results 
Relevant
Notification
notification
by independent 
communicated in 
Web
No.
external agency 
public domain
link
(Yes / No)
(Yes / No)
Not Applicable
Note: VIL does not have any CSR obligation for FY 2024-25
2. 	 Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being 
undertaken by your entity:
Name of Project 
State
District
No. of Project 
% of PAFs 
Amounts paid 
Sr. 
No.
for which R&R is 
Affected Families 
covered by 
to PAFs in the 
ongoing
(PAFs)
R&R
FY (In INR)
No projects pertinent to Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) were undertaken in the reporting period as no need 
arose for such projects.
138


--- Page 146 ---
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Corporate
Governance Report
Financial
Statements
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community:
VIL ensures all the voices of communities affected by VIL’s operations are heard. It promotes a transparent mechanism 
for receiving, understanding, and resolving grievances of community members in a fair, and timely manner.
4. 	 Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ Small Producers
1.92%
9.35%
Directly from within India
81.43%
94.34%
Note: Reasonable assurance is carried out by Emergent Ventures India Private Limited
5. 	 Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or 
workers employed on a permanent or non-permanent/on contract basis) in the following locations, as 
% of total wage cost:
Location
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Rural
0%
0%
Semi - Urban
9.63%
9.37%
Urban
17.42%
17.53%
Metropolitan
72.95%
73.10%
(Placed as per RBI Classification System - rural / semi-urban / urban / metropolitan)
Note: Reasonable assurance is carried out by Emergent Ventures India Private Limited
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact 
Assessments
	
Not Applicable
2.	 Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational 
districts as identified by Government bodies:
State
Aspirational District
Amount spent (In INR)
NA
NA
0
	
Note: VIL does not have any CSR obligation for FY 2024-25
3.	
(a)	 Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from 
	
suppliers comprising marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
	
	
Yes, efforts have been initiated to identify and support marginal and vulnerable suppliers within our base to 
ensure fair and transparent procurement practices.
	
(b)	 From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure?
	
	
o	
Women-owned Enterprises 
	
	
o	
People with disabilities-owned 
	
	
o	
LGBTQ-owned
	
	
o	
Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes-owned 
	
	
o	
Ex-servicemen-owned 
	
	
o	
MSME
139
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 147 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
	
 (c)	 What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
	
	
VIL is committed to fostering equal opportunities, both within our workforce and across our supplier ecosystem. 
We recognize that diverse suppliers bring unique perspectives, innovative solutions, and meaningful contributions 
that enhance our business value. Supporting these businesses also enables us to contribute to broader economic 
development and community empowerment.
	
	
In alignment with this commitment, a dedicated Supplier Diversity Policy was launched in December 2023, aimed 
at actively engaging with a wide range of groups, including women-owned enterprises, businesses owned by 
persons with disabilities, ex-servicemen, Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, and the LGBTQIA+ community.
	
	
As a result of this initiative: In FY25, 10% of new supplier onboarded. Currently, 6% of our overall active supplier 
base comprises diversified suppliers.
4.	
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your 
entity (in the current financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
Intellectual Property based on 
Owned/ Acquired 
Benefit shared  
Basis of calculating 
Sr. 
No.
traditional knowledge
(Yes/No)
(Yes / No)
benefit share
VIL provides telecommunication services based on latest technology and has not acquired any intellectual property 
based on traditional knowledge.
5.	
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property 
related disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved:
Name of authority
Brief of the Case
Corrective action taken
No disputes were reported with respect to intellectual property in the reporting period.
6.	
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
CSR Projects
No. of persons benefitted 
% of beneficiaries from vulnerable  
from CSR Projects
and marginalized groups
NA
-
-
Note: VIL does not have any CSR obligation for FY 2024-25
Principle 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a 
responsible manner
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback:
VIL provides multiples channels for customers to raise complaints and provide feedback Complaints received from all 
touchpoints (e.g., Contact Centre, E-mail, Digital, Vi app., Retail Outlets) are flagged in CRM, which is addressed by 
the Back-Office Team. Each complaint resolution is governed by a pre-defined TAT.
2.	
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry
 
information about:
As a percentage to  
total turnover
Environmental product and social parameters relevant to the Product
Does not have
Safe and responsible usage
Does not have
Recycling and/or safe disposal
Does not have
140


--- Page 148 ---
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Corporate
Governance Report
Financial
Statements
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
3.	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY 2024-25
Remarks
FY 2023-24
Remarks
Received 
Pending 
Received 
Pending 
during the 
resolution 
during the 
resolution 
year
at end of 
year
at end of 
year
year
Data privacy
0
0
-
0
0
-
Advertising
Cyber-security
0
0
-
0
0
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Delivery of essential 
services
-
-
-
-
-
-
Restrictive Trade 
Practices
Unfair Trade Practices
-
-
-
-
-
-
Customer
5789606
5578
Vi adheres to TRAI Policy of 
grievance redressal. Customer 
can register complaints through 
different modes (CC, Store, 
App, Web, Email, DoT/TRAI/PG 
portal etc.). Customer receives 
the Service Request number 
via SMS along with TAT at the 
time of complaint registration. 
Complaint is resolved by the 
Central Back Office team as per 
the pre-defined TAT, and the 
resolution is communicated 
via SMS / Call. In case the 
customers are not satisfied 
with the resolution, they have 
the option to appeal within 30 
days of the resolution
99771432
14869
Vi adheres to TRAI Policy of 
grievance redressal. Customer 
can register complaints through 
different modes (CC, Store, 
App, Web, Email, DoT/TRAI/PG 
portal etc.). Customer receives 
the Service Request number 
via SMS along with TAT at the 
time of complaint registration. 
Complaint is resolved by the 
Central Back Office team as per 
the pre-defined TAT, and the 
resolution is communicated 
via SMS / Call. In case the 
customers are not satisfied with 
the resolution, they have the 
option to appeal within 30 days 
of the resolution
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Number
Reason for Recall
Voluntary Recall
Not Applicable
Forced Recall
	
	
5.	
Does the entity have a Framework/ Policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? 
 
(Yes/No) If available, provide a web-link of the policy.
Yes, VIL has a comprehensive Information Security Policy and Data Privacy Policy which is built upon the ISO 
Standards, Regulatory Guidelines and industry best practices. Both these policies are available on our portal and 
are internal to VIL.
The policies set forth basic requirements for keeping the workplace safe, where confidential and sensitive information 
about VIL employees, customers, suppliers, and all stakeholders is maintained.
In addition, VIL also has a Privacy Policy that explains how we collect, store, use, process and protect Personal 
Information when our products, services and our website is used. The policy is aligned to the ISO 27701 Standard, 
DPDP Act, DSCI framework, GAPP and industry best practices.
141
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25


--- Page 149 ---
VODAFONE IDEA LIMITED
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and 
delivery of essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances 
of product recalls; penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
	
Not applicable, as no such incidents were reported for current financial year.
7.	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
	
a.	
Number of instances of data breaches.
	
	
There have been no instances of data breaches.
	
b.	
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers.
	
	
There have been no instances of data breach involving personally identifiable information of customers.
	
c.	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches.
	
	
Not Applicable as there have been no instances of data breaches.
	
Note: Reasonable assurance is carried out by Emergent Ventures India Private Limited
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed 
(provide web link, if available).
	
All details related with the products and services of VIL are available on the portal and mobile application of VIL. 
(https://www.myvi.in)
2.	
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or 
services.
	
VIL carries out regular campaigns to inform and educate consumers about the products and services. Additionally, 
SMS are sent to customers at regular interval about the services and products and also uses social media platform 
to educate the consumers.
3.	
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential 
services.
	
Yes, all/any communication directives received from Regulatory & Govt. authorities are complied with on an immediate 
basis. 
4.	
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per 
local laws? (Yes/No/Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey 
with regard to consumer satisfaction relating to the major products / services of the entity, significant 
locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No)
	
Yes, Product information details are displayed on the portal and application for easy understanding of the customers. 
It abides with the government norms and regulations. Our entity undertakes a detailed market research on assessing 
consumer satisfaction for all our services offerings. In FY 2023-24, VIL conducted a nation-wide Net Promotor 
Study (NPS Study) across many circles in India for both prepaid as well as postpaid segments. The objective of this 
study is to gauge satisfaction amongst the customer base on our products and services. 
142


--- Page 150 ---
Directors’ Report &
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Corporate
Governance Report
Financial
Statements
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report
143
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
